Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning’s Regular Press Conference on October 17, 2024_Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China
IPC
Visas
English
EN
简体中文
Français
Español
Русский
عربي
HOME
THE MINISTRY
Main Responsibilities
The Minister
Principal Officials
Departments
Related Agencies
NEWS
Top Stories
Speeches
Diplomatic Schedule
New Ambassadors
MFA News
Spokesperson’s Remarks
News from Overseas Missions
RESOURCES
Communiqués
Foreign Policies
In Focus
Diplomatic History
Diplomatic Figures
Protocol Affairs
Map of China
OVERSEAS MISSIONS
Chinese Embassies
Chinese Consulates General
Chinese Missions to International Organizations and Representative Offices Abroad
COUNTRIES AND REGIONS
Asia
Africa
Europe
North America
South America
Oceania
ABOUT CHINA
Home
News
Spokesperson’s Remarks
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning’s Regular Press Conference on October 17, 2024
Updated:
October 17, 2024 19:24
At the invitation of Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi, David Lammy, Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs of the UK, will pay an official visit to China from October 18 to 19.
China News Service: China announced Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs David Lammy’s visit to China. How does China view its current relations with the UK? What’s China’s expectation of this visit?
Mao Ning: Both China and the UK are permanent members of the UN Security Council and major economies in the world. A sustained and steady China-UK relationship serves the interests of the two countries and contributes to the joint international response to global challenges and world peace and development.
This is the first visit to China by a UK Cabinet minister under the new government. The two sides will have an in-depth discussion on implementing the important common understandings reached between the leaders of the two countries during their phone call in August, enhancing strategic mutual trust, and strengthening dialogue and cooperation in various fields. China stands ready to work with the UK to continue seeing each other as partners, uphold open cooperation, strive for mutual benefits, and promote the sustained and steady growth of bilateral relations.
Kyodo News: Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba today sent a “masakaki” offering to the Yasukuni Shrine under his name as Prime Minister in celebration of the autumn festival. Sources said he will not visit the Yasukuni Shrine during the annual rites that will be held until October 19. What’s your comment?
Mao Ning: The Yasukuni Shrine is a spiritual tool and symbol of Japanese militarists responsible for the war of aggression. The place honors 14 convicted Class-A war criminals with grave responsibilities for the war crimes committed during that war of aggression. We urge Japan to see squarely and reflect on the history of aggression, act prudently on historical issues such as the Yasukuni Shrine, make a clean break with militarism, follow a path of peaceful development, and earn the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international community with concrete actions.
Bloomberg: We reported this morning that two US members of Congress in charge of the “Communist department” sent a letter to US Commerce Secretary Raimondo, asking her to stop US companies selling all semiconductor manufacturing equipment to Huawei and related companies. Does the Chinese government have any comment on this letter and the question of whether US companies should be selling to Huawei or not?
Mao Ning: We have made clear our position on this question multiple times. We stay firmly opposed to the US abusing the concept of national security, creating barriers and undermining the normal China-US trade and economic cooperation. Such behavior is not conducive to the stability of global industrial and supply chains and will backfire and do no one good. The US needs to right the wrong and provide a fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese companies.
Phoenix TV: It’s reported the Fraser Institute’s Economic Freedom of the World 2024 Annual Report ranks Hong Kong as the world’s freest economy among 165 economies. Does the Foreign Ministry have any comment on that?
Mao Ning: Since its return to China, Hong Kong has retained its status as an international financial, shipping and trade center, remained free and open, and maintained world-class business environment. The city has consistently been ranked as one of the freest economies and most competitive regions globally by various international institutions. This fully shows that the international community highly recognizes Hong Kong’s unique status and advantages and the promising prospects of One country, Two systems. Hong Kong’s future will be even better and the business community across the world is welcome to share the opportunities this city offers and strive for prosperity together.
People’s Daily: Recently, the 23rd Meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of Member States of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) was held in Islamabad, Pakistan. Could you share with us the outcomes and highlights of this meeting?
Mao Ning: At the Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of Government, leaders of participating countries had in-depth discussions on the prospect and measures of deepening cooperation among the SCO member states on trade and people-to-people and cultural exchange under the new circumstances, and reached important consensus.
Premier Li Qiang elaborated on the significance of building a common home of solidarity and mutual trust, peace and tranquility, prosperity and development, good-neighborliness and friendship, and fairness and justice proposed by President Xi Jinping, and called on all parties to carry forward the Shanghai Spirit, enhance solidarity and coordination, and jointly implement the consensus reached at the Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of State. Leaders of participating countries spoke highly of China’s important contributions to SCO development and regional peace and stability. They expressed their active support for China as SCO’s rotating president and readiness to continue deepening cooperation in such areas as security, economic exchange and trade, investment, finance, connectivity, and people-to-people and cultural exchange, and make the SCO a reliable platform for all countries to pursue development, prosperity and better livelihood.
AFP: North Korea has said today that its constitution now defines the South as a hostile state. This comes after North Korea blew up roads and railways linking it with the South earlier this week. Given China’s economic and diplomatic ties with both North and South Korea, how does the Foreign Ministry view these developments?
Mao Ning: We also closely follow the developments on the Korean Peninsula. China’s position on the Korean Peninsula issue is consistent. We always believe that safeguarding peace and stability on the Peninsula and promoting the political settlement of the issue serves the common interests of all parties. It is also hoped that all parties will make constructive efforts to this end.
China Daily: It’s reported Taiwan announced the official operation of its newly established office in Mumbai, India, which will be the third office Taiwan has set up in the country. What’s China’s comment?
Mao Ning: There is but one China in the world and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory. China strongly opposes all forms of official contact and interaction between Taiwan and countries having diplomatic relations with China, including the establishment of representative offices for each other. We have lodged solemn representations to the Indian side.
The one-China principle is a serious political commitment made by the Indian side and serves as the political foundation for China-India relations. China urges the Indian side to strictly abide by the commitments it has made, prudently and properly settle the Taiwan-related issues, not to conduct any form of official interaction with Taiwan and avoid disturbing the process to improve the China-India relationship.