Reuters: Please could the Foreign Ministry confirm whether China will send representatives to a ceremonial signing of a peace deal between Cambodia and Thailand at an October 26-28 ASEAN meeting in Malaysia? Politico reports President Donald Trump requested Chinese officials be excluded from the event.
Lin Jian: China supports Cambodia and Thailand in properly handling and resolving border disputes through dialogue and consultation and supports Malaysia in playing its role as ASEAN’s rotating chair. Cambodia and Thailand are and will always be each other’s neighbors. China hopes Cambodia and Thailand will engage in equal-footed consultation in a spirit of mutual understanding and accommodation, and work in the same direction to seek a lasting solution that is acceptable to both sides. Since the conflict began, China has actively promoted talks for peace in its own way. China has and will continue to play a constructive role for rebuilding trust, cementing the ceasefire, and peacefully settling the dispute between Cambodia and Thailand.
NHK: Former Japanese Prime Minister Murayama Tomiichi passed away. Can I have the Foreign Ministry’s comment?
Lin Jian: China expresses deep condolences over the passing of former Prime Minister Murayama Tomiichi. Our hearts go out to his family.
Mr. Murayama is an old and dear friend of the Chinese people and long committed to China-Japan friendship. In May 1995, then Prime Minister Murayama visited Lugou Bridge and the Museum of the War of Chinese People’s Resistance Against Japanese Aggression during his visit to China, and wrote down the words “face up to history and pray for friendship and ever-lasting peace between Japan and China.” On August 15 of the same year, which marked the 50th anniversary of Japan’s announcement of unconditional surrender, then Prime Minister Murayama issued a statement on the historical issues, making a profound reflection on Japan’s colonial rule and aggression and expressing apologies to the victim countries of the war. He is a statesman with a strong sense of justice, and his contribution to enhancing China-Japan friendship will
forever
be remembered.
This year marks the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People’s War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. The Murayama Statement embodies the solemn statement and commitment of the Japanese government to the people of victim countries in Asia and the international community on Japan’s history of aggression and colonial rule. The statement should be honored in good faith. We hope Japan will face up to and reflect on its history of aggression, keep to the path of peaceful development, win the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international community with concrete actions, and work with China in the same direction to build a constructive and stable China-Japan relationship that meets the demands of the new era.
RIA Novosti: RIA Novosti correspondent Ivan Zuev was killed on assignment in a Ukrainian drone strike in the Zaporizhzhia region. Can I have the Foreign Ministry’s comment on that?
Lin Jian: We noted the report. We express condolences over the tragic incident and our hearts go out to his family. China opposes violence against journalists and strongly calls for concrete efforts of protecting the safety of news workers and preventing such tragedies from happening again. China always believes that dialogue and negotiation is the only viable way out of the Ukraine crisis. We hope parties will work for the political settlement of the crisis and jointly deescalate the situation.
AFP: U.S. President Donald Trump said yesterday that he will meet with President Putin of Russia in coming weeks for talks hosted by Hungary. This announcement was just before he meets with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine today in Washington. How does China’s Foreign Ministry view these discussions?
Lin Jian: China supports all efforts conducive to the peaceful settlement of the Ukraine crisis. We are glad to see that Russia and the U.S. maintain engagement, improve bilateral relations, and promote the political settlement of the crisis.
Bloomberg: The UK has decided to put off a decision on China’s embassy until December 10. Also, Britain has requested to revamp its own embassy here. Would you like to comment on either one of these two issues?
Lin Jian: China expresses strong concern and opposition to the UK’s latest decision on the new Chinese embassy project, which has been put off by the UK for seven years. In the recent rounds of communication between the two sides for the early approval of the project, China has shown utmost sincerity and patience. The UK has shown a total lack of the spirit of contract, credibility and ethics, and has repeatedly put off the approval of the project citing various excuses and linked the project with other issues, constantly complicating and politicizing the matter. That goes entirely against the UK’s commitments and previous remarks about improving China-UK relations. We once again call on the UK to fulfill its obligation and honor its commitments at once, otherwise the consequences arising therefrom shall be borne by the UK side.
Kyodo News: Today marks the first day of the autumn festival of Japan’s Yasukuni Shrine. Prime Minister Shigeru Ishiba and Liberal Democratic Party head Sanae Takaichi didn’t visit the shrine, but Ishiba sent a “masakaki” offering to the shrine in his name as Prime Minister, and Takaichi made a monetary offering using her own funds. What’s China’s comment?
Lin Jian: The Yasukuni Shrine is a spiritual tool and symbol of Japanese militarists responsible for the war of aggression. The place honors 14 convicted Class-A war criminals with grave responsibilities for the war crimes committed during that war of aggression. China is firmly against Japan’s latest negative moves related to the Yasukuni Shrine and has lodged serious protests.
This year marks the 80th anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People’s War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. To view and treat history correctly is an important prerequisite for Japan’s post-war return to the international community. It is the political foundation of Japan’s relations with neighboring countries, and more importantly, a yardstick for Japan’s commitment to peaceful development. We urge Japan to face squarely and reflect on its history of aggression, be prudent on historical issues such as the Yasukuni Shrine, make a clean break with militarism, stick to the path of peaceful development, and earn the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international community through real actions.
Reuters: The European and U.S. auto associations have warned of supply chain disruptions stemming from the Dutch government announcing it had taken control of Nexperia. Is the Chinese government talking to its Dutch counterparts to resolve this?
Lin Jian: We’ve responded to relevant questions. Chinese competent authorities further made clear our position yesterday. Let me stress again that China opposes overstretching the concept of national security and taking discriminatory practices targeting companies of particular countries. Relevant countries need to correct the wrongdoings, uphold the spirit of contract and market principles, and stop disrupting global industrial and supply chains. China will firmly defend its legitimate and lawful rights and interests.
Beijing Youth Daily: According to the statistics released by the National Immigration Administration yesterday, the number of foreigners entering China visa-free in the third quarter rose by around 50 percent year-on-year. Since the beginning of this year, “China travel” has been a trend that is full of vigor and increasingly popular among foreigners. What’s your comment?
Lin Jian: The latest statistics show that in the third quarter, over seven million foreigners entered China visa-free, accounting for 72.2 percent of foreign travelers and up by 48.3 percent year-on-year. A quick visit to scenic spots gives way to diverse immersive experiences. Foreign friends get to see first-hand the Chinese people’s contemporary life, and enjoy the beautiful landscape and hustle and bustle in the country. A true China with its multiple facets and progress unfolds before their eyes. More foreign friends now have a better understanding of China through traveling in the country, and this is very much the result of China’s high-standard opening up. We’ll continue to implement facilitation measures and offer better services to welcome more foreign friends to visit China.
