Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding Telephone Talks with President Xi Jinping of China, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding Telephone Talks with President Xi Jinping of China, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India
October 8, 2021
Tweet
[Provisional Translation]
(Regarding telephone talks with President Xi Jinping of China and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India)
I first had a telephone conversation with President Xi Jinping of China for 30 minutes from 4:30 PM today. I frankly raised concerns between our two countries. I went on to express that dialogues on such issues, among others, be continued. Meanwhile, President Xi and I agreed to cooperate on matters of common interest, including North Korea. Based upon these thoughts, I stated that we should take the opportunity of next year, the 50th anniversary of the normalization of diplomatic relations, to build a constructive and stable relations between Japan and China.
President Xi, for his part, echoed my words and expressed his willingness to develop Japan-China relations. As neighbors, Japan and China have various issues to deal with, but I would like to continue to have candid discussions with President Xi, based on today's meeting, while saying things that need to be said.
I also had a telephone talk with Prime Minister Modi of India for about 25 minutes from 5:15 PM. We confirmed that we will further develop Japan-India relations and work together to give shape to a Free and Open Indo-Pacific, while also making use of the Quad of Japan, Australia, India, and the United States.
Let me add one more thing: during this week, since I took office as prime minister, I have had summit talks over the phone with all the Quad partners: first with the United States, then with Australia and today with India. I also have talked with the leaders of China and Russia. Looking back, I feel confident that I have made a good start in summit diplomacy. Next week, I will have more telephone talks with national leaders around the world. And once I gain the mandate of the people to run the Government in the upcoming election, I would like to travel around the world and proactively engage in face-to-face diplomacy.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives
The 99th Prime Minister
Open
Close
2021
2020
The 98th Prime Minister
Open
Close
2020
2019
2018
2017
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister