Statement by Prime Minister Kishida at the UN General Assembly High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage (UHC) (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#G7
#UnitedNations
Statement by Prime Minister Kishida at the UN General Assembly High-Level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage (UHC)
September 21, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Your Excellency, President of the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Distinguished Delegates,
Japan has been leading discussions on achieving UHC. Before the lessons learned from the COVID-19 pandemic are forgotten, the international community needs to, once again, remember and act on the goal of achieving UHC. This meeting provides an ideal opportunity to renew our determination to achieve UHC.
At the G7 Hiroshima Summit, the leaders committed to achieving more resilient, equitable and sustainable universal health coverage through strengthening health systems. In more concrete terms, in order to be able to better prevent, prepare for, and respond to future pandemics, the G7 leaders shared an understanding that efforts need to be made to build and strengthen global architecture concerning global health emergencies, including through the negotiations on the “Pandemic Accord.”
In an endeavor to achieve UHC, the G7 highlighted its financial contributions totaling more than $ 48 billion from the public and private sectors, and Japan expressed its contributions totaling more than $ 7.5 billion. Further, the Impact Investment Initiative for Global Health (the Triple I) to pursue expansion of private investment through impact investments was endorsed by G7 leaders.
In addition, in order to ensure equitable access to medical countermeasures (MCM), which turned out to be a challenge throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the G7 announced the “G7 Hiroshima Vision for Equitable Access to Medical Countermeasures.” The G7 launched “MCM Delivery Partnership for equitable access (MCDP)”, and cooperation with relevant countries and organizations has been advanced for its implementation. At the recent G20 New Delhi Summit, it was confirmed that the G20 will support efforts to strengthen the delivery of MCM. Finally, the G7 released the “G7 Global Plan for UHC Action Agenda” in order to achieve UHC for the entire world.
Now is the time for the world leaders to demonstrate the determination to cooperate together to achieve UHC. Japan is also determined to lead the efforts by the international community to achieve UHC by 2030 in the entire world, including developing countries.
Thank you very much for your attention.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio’s participation in the UN General Assembly High-Level Meeting on UHC (Summary)
Visit to the United States: Third Day
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister