Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Visit to Fukushima Prefecture (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#ALPSTreatedWater
#DiplomacySecurity
#DisasterResponse
#GreatEastJapanQuake
#Reconstruction
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Visit to Fukushima Prefecture
August 24, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
（On the objectives of today’s visit and his thoughts, as well as how he will reflect the result of the visit to future policies, including how the Government will approach China that has banned imports of Japanese marine products）
Today marks the first anniversary since the start of the discharge of ALPS (Advanced Liquid Processing System) treated water into the sea. I heard firsthand opinions from Chairperson Nozaki of the Fukushima Prefectural Federation of Fisheries Co-operative Associations and other people concerned. I also enjoyed fresh local seafood in season, which convinced me of the highly tasteful quality of the Joban Mono (specialties of the Joban region) that can overcome the reputational damage.
When we decided to start the discharge of ALPS treated water into the sea, I said that the Government will make utmost efforts to ensure that the livelihood businesses in the nation’s fisheries industry will be handed down as vigorous ones to the generations of our children and grandchildren. I also said that the Government will be fully and responsibly committed to continuing necessary measures, even if they may have to be taken over a long period of time into the future. This principle is unwavering and we will continue to take necessary steps as a matter of course.
It is to be noted that the discharge of ALPS treated water into the sea has continued to be conducted in a safe manner, including on the basis of evaluations by the IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency). We will continue to disseminate both domestically and internationally related information based on science with transparency and clarity. On the other hand, it is quite regrettable that some countries have maintained their suspension of imports of Japanese marine products, which we consider is not based on scientific grounds. We will as a matter of course continue to take every opportunity to strongly demand that they lift the suspension, while also steadily promoting dialogue among experts based on science that we believe will lead to a correct understanding of the matter.
Let me add that the consumption of scallops has increased by one and half times in value terms, a result stemming from the expansion of domestic consumption by Japanese citizens warmly wishing to assist the fisheries industry that has been negatively affected by the suspension of imports. I sincerely appreciate such efforts. At the same time, the package of measures introduced in September last year has steadily contributed to the development of alternative sales channels covering around half of the volume that used to be exported to China, among other achievements. However, this also means that the decrease in the exports to China has not been fully compensated, making it necessary for us to continue to take countermeasures.
To this end, we hope to lay out the direction of necessary measures by holding next week a joint session of the Inter-Ministerial Council for Contaminated Water, Treated Water and Decommissioning Issues and the Inter-Ministerial Council for Steady Implementation of the Basic Policy on handling ALPS Treated Water, with a view to the economic measures to be taken in autumn. With regard to the revitalization of the fisheries industry in Fukushima, Chairperson Nozaki requested the continued implementation of the existing support program for the restoration of fish catch. The Government remains committed to the steady provision of support.
Today, we also heard opinions regarding the challenges facing the nation’s fisheries industry as a whole. Based on the opinions we received, the Government plans to expand the support measures for the introduction of fishing boats and facilities for fish farming, with a view to the diversification of fish catches, as well as to seek the revision of legislation for the expansion of the mutual aid system in the fisheries industry. In addition, we plan to set up a new program for supporting the initiatives in the industry aimed at revitalizing fishing villages. We hope to clearly lay out the direction of policies for agriculture fisheries and forestry, including those that I have just mentioned, in a meeting next week of the Headquarters for the Stable Food Supply and Strengthening of the Foundation for the Industries of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry.
The discharge of ALPS treated water into the sea serves as a prerequisite for the steady decommissioning of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. In this context, we take seriously the suspension of the experimental removal of nuclear fuel debris from the No. 2 reactor on the first day of the mission, for which preparatory work had been carried out. Once the removal is successfully initiated sometime in the future, we will enter the Phase 3 of the Mid-and-Long-Term Roadmap towards the Decommissioning leading to the completion of decommissioning, which will pose the most difficult and primary challenge in the decommissioning process. Yesterday, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Saito strongly demanded that TEPCO President Kobayakawa ensure to determine the cause of the suspension of the work and responsibly take necessary measures under TEPCO’s initiative with a sense of urgency. The Government remains committed to taking the lead in ensuring the safe and steady decommissioning of the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, which is a prerequisite of the reconstruction of Fukushima. Also, the government will take the initiative in efforts to lift the evacuation order for the difficult-to-return zones, to improve the living environment for those who wish to return to their homes, and to support the revitalization of industry and livelihood. The Government as a whole is determined to do everything in its power for the full-fledged reconstruction and recovery of Fukushima after the Phase 2 of the roadmap of the reconstruction and recovery. That’s all.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Visit to Fukushima Prefecture (PM in Action)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister