Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at the ASEAN-Japan Economic Co-Creation Forum (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#ASEAN
Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at the ASEAN-Japan Economic Co-Creation Forum
December 18, 2023
Tweet
Related Videos
Open
Close
If you can not view the video,
click here
I am Fumio Kishida, Prime Minister of Japan. We are honored to have members of the business communities of both Japan and ASEAN gathered in Japan, especially in this commemorative 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation.
ASEAN and Japan have worked closely together for the peace and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region. The foundation of this relationship is heart-to-heart mutual understanding. For the past 50 years and for the next 50 years, ASEAN will continue to be a true friend to Japan.
Since assuming office as Prime Minister, I have officially visited a number of ASEAN countries. Just recently, I visited Malaysia and the Philippines. In every country I visited, I have felt the depth of our shared business ties and the strength of our people-to-people connections that go beyond business.
The ties between the business communities on both sides are the foundation of the friendship between ASEAN and Japan. The key concept for the next 50 years is Co-Creation, in which ASEAN and Japan leverage their respective strengths to create the future together. I believe that this future can only be forged based on the trust that has been cultivated over the long history of ASEAN-Japan relations.
It is of great significance that the leading members of these business communities have also gathered here to enhance the "relationship of trust" on the occasion of the meeting in Tokyo of the leaders of ASEAN and Japan to discuss the next 50 years.
Today, we will discuss:
- the Asia Zero Emission Community--AZEC platform to simultaneously achieve three goals; decarbonization, economic growth, and energy security;
- startups for solving social issues and creating innovations;
- promoting cooperation among major companies;
- and strengthening collaboration among the next generation of business leaders.
Japan has decided to support the formation of business projects that will serve as flagships for ASEAN-Japan collaboration. I expect that today's discussion will serve as a catalyst for co-creating innovations that will lead the way to the future.
In closing, I would like to express my best wishes for this Summit to be a foundation for building friendship between ASEAN and Japan for the next 50 years, and for the health and success of all of you gathered here. Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister