Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Attendance at the NATO Summit and Other Matters  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#NATO
#FreeOpenIndoPacific
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Attendance at the NATO Summit and Other Matters
July 11, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the statements Prime Minister Kishida made at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Summit and the outcomes from his participation in the summit)
I attended the Partners Session of the NATO Summit for the third consecutive year. At this session, we discussed Russia's aggression against Ukraine, Indo-Pacific affairs, and other aspects of the international security situation as well as cooperation between NATO and its Indo-Pacific partners, also called the IP4 (Japan, Australia, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea). During this session, I stated my recognition that the security environments of the Euro-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific are now becoming increasingly inseparable. I also expressed concern about recent moves to advance Russia-North Korea military cooperation, and on those points we shared a common recognition. I also welcomed the trend in European countries to have increased interest in the Indo-Pacific.
As for what outcomes I achieved, we reaffirmed the importance of cooperation with like-minded countries outside the region and we agreed on further reinforcing the cooperative relationship between Japan and NATO. Moreover, agreement was reached between the IP4 and NATO regarding flagship projects and we confirmed the launch of sustained cooperation between the IP4 and NATO. These too I can offer as the results of my attendance at the summit.
(In light of scandals at the Ministry of Defense and the Self-Defense Forces (SDF) coming to light and potentially impacting how information sharing will occur in the future with NATO or like-minded countries, on Prime Minister Kishida's plan at present for responding to the matter, including having ministers or senior Self-Defense Forces officers take responsibility, or having them disciplined or punished)
In the Ministry of Defense and the SDF, multiple cases of inappropriate handling of specially designated secrets and so on have been confirmed. This has caused worry for the Japanese people, and first and foremost, I must apologize for the situation. Defense Minister Kihara has reported to me the results of the investigation on multiple instances as well as the disciplinary actions imposed on those involved, and I have been briefed that that information will be publicly announced on July 12, Japan time.
Looking back on the current security environment as well as this NATO Summit and the discussions that were held, I once again recognize this as an extremely grave matter. Within that context, I believe there is no room for even the smallest inadequacies in Japan's defense. Accordingly, I believe that Minister Kihara, taking responsibility as the defense minister, must do his utmost to restore public trust by demonstrating strong leadership and working to rapidly rebuild the very organizations of the Ministry of Defense and the SDF while also making the defense structure exemplary.
(On how Prime Minister Kishida currently thinks about how he will approach the upcoming Liberal Democratic Party leadership election and by when he will decide on his approach, considering the end of his tenure as party president in September)
Russia's attacks on Ukraine are becoming increasingly severe, while at the same time, we see moves by some countries to extend cooperation and support to Russia. Given this international environment, the discussions held at this NATO Summit were characterized by an extremely heightened sense of urgency. Amidst this international situation, I am doing my utmost to tackle issues both domestic and international, including political reform and issues that cannot be postponed. As I have been saying for quite some time, I am currently dedicating myself to producing results regarding these issues, and I am not giving any thought to other matters. That is the state of affairs for me at present.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister