Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Telephone Talks with H. E. Hon. Uhuru KENYATTA, President of the Republic of Kenya, and His Royal Highness Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Telephone Talks with H. E. Hon. Uhuru KENYATTA, President of the Republic of Kenya, and His Royal Highness Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
March 17, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional Translation]
(Regarding telephone talks with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia)
A short while I ago, I had two separate telephone talks, one with President Uhuru Kenyatta of Kenya, and the other with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia. I had candid discussion with each of those leaders primarily on the situation in Ukraine.
In the telephone talk with Kenya, which is currently a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, President Kenyatta and I confirmed that we will closely cooperate in responding to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine. I, meanwhile, emphasized the need for the Security Council reform and we confirmed that we will continue to work together to achieve the reform.
In the telephone talk with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, while confirming to cooperate in responding to the situation in Ukraine, we had in-depth discussion on countermeasures against the soaring crude oil prices. I expressed my strong expectations for Saudi Arabia to display leadership for the stabilization of the crude oil market and we agreed on deepening the cooperation toward the stabilization of the crude oil market and carbon neutral era.
We stand with the people of Ukraine. We will continue to pursue proactive summit diplomacy to further strengthen the unity and solidarity of the international community
(Regarding whether the Prime Minister urged Saudi Arabia to increase crude oil production in his talk with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman)
Yes. We discussed the possibility of increasing production and agreed that the Saudi Arabian oil minister and Mr. Hagiuda, Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry, will discuss details. That’s all the details that I can share with you right now.
(Regarding whether the Prime Minister felt a positive response in the talk)
I believe that the talk demonstrated our enthusiasm for making positive and concerted efforts.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-Kenya Summit Telephone Talk (MOFA website)
Telephone Talk between Prime Minister Kishida and Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia (MOFA website
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister