Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding the Earthquake Centered in Hyuga-nada, Miyazaki Prefecture, and the Nankai Trough Earthquake Emergency Information (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DisasterResponse
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding the Earthquake Centered in Hyuga-nada, Miyazaki Prefecture, and the Nankai Trough Earthquake Emergency Information
August 8, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the status of damage identified regarding the earthquake that occurred in Miyazaki Prefecture and how he plans to respond to upcoming issues, including whether he will leave for an official trip overseas scheduled to start on the following day)
The status of damage identified by the Government was briefed by the Chief Cabinet Secretary at a press conference a short while ago, and I understand that the Japan Meteorological Agency issued a megaquake advisory today at 07:15 p.m. as part of the Nankai Trough Earthquake Emergency Information.
The Government will later hold a Conference on Disaster Countermeasures headed by Disaster Management Minister Matsumura to confirm preparedness for further damage. The people are advised to pay close attention to the information provided by the Government while also ensuring again their preparedness for earthquakes on a daily basis as well as preparing for immediate evacuation in case of an earthquake.
I would also like to request that the people never spread so-called false information to avoid unnecessary confusion.
The Government is continuing to gather information on the status of damage while also promptly establishing an alert system for Nankai Trough earthquakes. With regard to my planned official trips to Nagasaki and overseas, I will appropriately make a decision based on how such situations will evolve.
I understand that the Japan Meteorological Agency is currently holding a press conference to provided further details. That’s all from me.
(On how he will respond to upcoming issues following the issuance of the first-ever Nankai Trough Earthquake Emergency Information)
I have already explained the issuance of the Nankai Trough Earthquake Emergency Information. Did you mean to ask how I will deal with the plans for my own official trips I was talking about?
(On how he plans to deal with upcoming issues following the issuance of the megaquake advisory, including how he will do so vis-à-vis the people)
Our immediate response is to hold a Conference on Disaster Countermeasures to confirm our preparedness for further disasters. We would like the people to check necessary information provided by the Government so that they will be well prepared for possible disasters. This is what we want the people to work on.
With regard to my planned official trips, I will appropriately make a decision based on how such situations will evolve. For further information, you are advised to refer to the announcements by the Chief Cabinet Secretary and the Japan Meteorological Agency. That’s all.
(On whether the Government is considering setting up a disaster countermeasures headquarters as of this moment)
I have explained what the Government has agreed on so far. Beyond that, I understand that the Japan Meteorological Agency or the Disaster Management Minister will make announcements and give explanations.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister