Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Second Summit of the Crimea Platform (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Second Summit of the Crimea Platform
August 23, 2022
Tweet
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
I am KISHIDA Fumio, the Prime Minister of Japan.
Let me express my utmost respect for the leadership of President ZELENSKYY, who has organized this summit meeting amid grave difficulties, and emphasize our solidarity with the Government and people of Ukraine.
Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is an outrageous act, which has shaken the very foundations of the international order not only in Europe but also in Asia.
Japan has consistently supported Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, including Crimea, and strongly opposes unilateral attempts to change the status quo.
In particular, as a Prime Minister who comes from Hiroshima, I will never tolerate the use of, or the threat to use, nuclear weapons.
Japan has implemented strong sanctions against Russia and provided support for Ukraine, including humanitarian assistance, financial support, the provision of defense equipment and the transportation of relief products.
Moreover, as I announced at the G7 Summit in Elmau, Japan is going to continue to implement assistance of about 1.1 billion US dollars, including additional grant aid to support the expansion of the Ukraine’s grain storage capacity and to respond to the global food crisis.
As Russia’s aggression against Ukraine becomes ever more protracted, it is imperative for the international community to demonstrate solidarity in its response.
As the leader of the sole Asian G7 member country, I have had successive dialogues with regional leaders such as those of India and Southeast Asian nations, through which we have concurred on the importance of upholding the principles embraced by the international community.
Japan will continue to do everything in its power to advance efforts that only Japan can do, including by availing itself of opportunities such as the outreach to African countries on the occasion of the 8th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD8), an initiative of the Government of Japan, to be held in Tunisia this weekend.
As the country holding the G7 presidency next year, Japan, through close collaboration with the international community and by applying its own experience, will do its utmost to help bring about peace and the reconstruction of Ukraine as soon as possible.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister