Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida Regarding His Visit to the Republic of the Philippines and Malaysia and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#ASEAN
#NuclearDisarmament
#Nonproliferation
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida Regarding His Visit to the Republic of the Philippines and Malaysia and Other Matters
November 5, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On what actions the Prime Minister expects from the Republic of the Philippines and Malaysia regarding the situation in the East and South China Seas and how he will link the outcomes of his latest round of visits to the Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations)-Japan Friendship and Cooperation)
As the international situation, including the situation in the East and South China Seas, is becoming even more severe and complex, I took this occasion to exchange views with President Marcos and Prime Minister Anwar not only on bilateral relations, but also on the regional and international situation and other matters. I believe that the Summit meetings were meaningful, as the two leaders and I shared the same view and confirmed that we will work closely together to maintain and strengthen a free and open international order based on the rule of law and to aim for a world where human dignity is respected. In this context, there has been tangible progress between the Philippines in particular, such as the first Official Security Assistance (OSA) project, the start of negotiations on the Reciprocal Access Agreement (RAA), and maritime security capacity building. I will steadily advance these efforts.
We also confirmed stronger cooperation toward the Commemorative Summit to be held in December in Tokyo, marking the 50th anniversary of ASEAN-Japan relations. I intend to set out an ASEAN-Japan vision for a new era in the Summit in December. I would like to continue collaboration toward the announcement of this vision with the leaders of the Philippines, Malaysia, and other ASEAN countries.
(On the Prime Minister’s view on the latest Israeli-Palestinian situation and how he will strive to calm down the situation)
First of all, I feel that the local situation, including the humanitarian situation of the general public, is very difficult and unpredictable, and I am closely following the situation with deep concern. As you have mentioned, Minister Kamikawa visited Israel, Palestine, and Jordan over the weekend, and in meetings with their dignitaries, she conveyed Japan’s position and directly called on them to improve the humanitarian situation and calm down the situation as soon as possible. In addition, the foreign ministers of the G7 countries will meet this week. I expect them to hold an in-depth exchange of views in the meeting.
On my latest visit to the Philippines and Malaysia, I also discussed the Israeli-Palestine situation and exchanged views with the leaders of the two countries during the Summit meetings. As the local situation is changing from moment to moment, I believe that Japan must thoroughly grasp the changing situation and cooperate with other countries to realize temporary humanitarian pauses and calm down the situation as soon as possible, with a view to improving the humanitarian situation at the earliest possible time. During various events on the international political calendar in the time to come, Japan will communicate with other countries and strive to contribute to calming down the situation and realizing temporary pauses.
(On his view on the entry into force of a law to revoke the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT)  in Russia and his future approach toward the realization of a “world without nuclear weapons”)
I have already expressed my view on social media on Russia’s action you have just pointed out. As the international community has long strived to advance efforts toward the entry into force of the CTBT, I deeply deplore Russia’s revocation of its ratification of the treaty because it goes against such longstanding efforts.  I am aware that the situation surrounding nuclear disarmament is extremely difficult, yet this is exactly why, as Prime Minister of an A-bombed city, I renew my determination that I must continue realistic and practical efforts, including the ratification of the CTBT. Toward a “world without nuclear weapons,” I would like to continue to promote Japan’s position in various fora or conferences in the international arena, or through bilateral relations.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Visit to the Philippines: First Day
Visit to the Philippines: Second Day
Visit to Malaysia
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister