Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at the Ceremony to Commemorate the 100th Anniversary of the Establishment of the Indian Commerce and Industry Association Japan (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#FreeOpenIndoPacific
Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at the Ceremony to Commemorate the 100th Anniversary of the Establishment of the Indian Commerce and Industry Association Japan
November 17, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Indian Commerce and Industry Association Japan on its 100th anniversary.
Since its establishment in 1921, the Indian Commerce and Industry Association Japan has contributed to the development of Japan-India relations through activities such as economic and cultural exchange between the two countries. During its 100 years of existence, the association has faced many challenges, including the Great Kanto Earthquake that occurred shortly after its establishment, and it is thanks to the efforts of everyone involved that we are able to celebrate this day. I would like to express my sincere respect to Chairman HIRA Ryuko and everyone involved.
Sharing fundamental values and strategic interests, Japan and India are strengthening their relationship in a wide range of areas. Most notably, as exemplified by the activities of the Indian Commerce and Industry Association Japan, cooperation in the economic field has strongly anchored the wide-ranging relationship between Japan and India. In July, Japan-India Association President SUGA led an economic mission comprising of 103 business stakeholders to India with the cooperation of Keidanren.
As the international community is at a turning point in history, cooperation between Japan and India is increasingly gaining its importance not only in a bilateral context, but also for the peace and prosperity of the international community. This year, Japan and India hold the G7 and G20 presidencies respectively, and I have visited India twice to have candid discussions with Prime Minister Modi. I am determined to continue working with Prime Minister Modi toward the further development of Japan-India relations as well as the realization of a "free and open Indo-Pacific".
Interest in India from various sectors of the Japanese community is growing even stronger. I would like to extend my best wishes to the Indian Commerce and Industry Association Japan and to the companies of both countries including our member companies, for continued prosperity in the course of the development of friendly relations between Japan and India.
I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to you today.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister