Message from Prime Minister Kishida on the Occasion of the Event Marking One Year to the Opening of Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#Expo2025
Message from Prime Minister Kishida on the Occasion of the Event Marking One Year to the Opening of Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai
April 15, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
There is now one year to go until the curtain rises on Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai. The World Expo is again coming to Japan.
The theme of the expo, "Designing Future Society for Our Lives," poses a fundamental question to us. In an era in which the future is uncertain because of division and confrontation, what can we do to make all lives on earth into ones that shine brightly?
We are now called to spread the wings of our imagination to the world's future possibilities and take action. I very much look forward to this grand event of the World Expo serving as a catalyst setting that in motion.
The Expo venue will offer visitors a glimpse of the society of the future. For the visitors coming to the Expo from every corner of Japan and nations around the world, and especially for the children, who will be tomorrow's leaders, this will surely be an unparalleled experience as they savor a taste of what the future holds.
For all involved, including the local governments, the business community, and the national government, over the upcoming year until Expo 2025 opens, let us press forward in our preparations united in an "all Japan" effort to together create an expo that will carve out the future. And, let us together lead this endeavor to certain success.
I very much look forward to having an inspiring and invigorating experience in Osaka together with all of you one year from today.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister