Joint Press Conference by the Leaders of Japan and Germany (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#JPNDEUsummit
#FreeOpenIndoPacific
#NewFormCapitalism
#GrowthStrategy
#SciTechInnovation
Joint Press Conference by the Leaders of Japan and Germany
July 12, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Kishida]
I am truly delighted to be visiting Berlin in my first visit here as Prime Minister. I wish to thank Olaf, and indeed all the German people, for welcoming me so warmly.
The international community now faces serious challenges, including Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the situation in the Middle East, and it is becoming increasingly clear that the security of the Euro-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific are inseparable. Against that backdrop, as we work to uphold and reinforce the free and open international order based on the rule of law, cooperation and collaboration between Japan and Germany are becoming all the more important.
In the summit meeting we just concluded, with this awareness of the issues in mind, Olaf and I agreed we will further reinforce bilateral collaboration and cooperation between Japan and Germany.
As Germany has been strengthening its involvement in the Indo-Pacific, cooperation in the field of security and defense between the two countries has been progressing in recent years. This summer, aircrafts of the German Luftwaffe and frigate are scheduled to visit Japan, and a training fleet of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Forces is also scheduled to make a port call in Hamburg. And as introduced by Olaf, I look forward to the Agreement on the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) between Japan and Germany that entered into force today contributing to the further promotion of such cooperation between our forces.
In addition, intending to further strengthen our cooperation in the field of security and defense by also leveraging the "2+2" framework, today Olaf and I confirmed that we will prepare to hold the next meeting of the "2+2" as soon as possible.
In March 2023, I welcomed Olaf and relevant German ministers to Tokyo to convene the first round of Japan-Germany Inter-Government Consultations. These consultations served as a vital step that opened a new door in our bilateral relations. Today, I confirmed with Olaf that we will proceed with coordination to hold the next meeting in Germany as early as next year, with the participation of relevant ministers from both countries.
Today, with regard to the area of economic security as well, we had candid discussions that will contribute to further strengthening our bilateral partnership.
In dealing with economic security issues, unified responses by allies and like-minded countries are absolutely essential. Moreover, in order to maintain and expand a free and fair international economic order, it will become ever more important to cooperate between Japan and Germany, whose industrial structures and advanced technological capabilities have much in common. Olaf and I, sharing this recognition, agreed to establish a bilateral framework for consultations in the field of economic security.
And, in strategically important sectors including hydrogen, semiconductors, and critical minerals, we welcome the progress being made between private sectors of the two countries.
Beyond this, we will promote cooperation to cultivate (1) Research and development in Beyond 5G/6G, which will constitute our next-generation information and communication infrastructure, (2) Partnership in cyber fields, and (3) the Global realization of safe, secure, and trustworthy AI through the Hiroshima AI Process.
In closing, I would like to express once again my appreciation for the cooperation shown to me by Olaf and all those involved in the German government as I make this visit to Germany. I very much look forward to having candid discussions at the working dinner to follow, with a view to strengthening Japan-Germany bilateral collaboration regarding regional issues and within multilateral diplomacy.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister