Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding North Korea’s Launch of a Ballistic Missile and Prime Minister Kishida's Thoughts on the First Year of His Administration (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#NKmissile
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding North Korea’s Launch of a Ballistic Missile and Prime Minister Kishida's Thoughts on the First Year of His Administration
October 4, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the launch of a ballistic missile by North Korea)
First, I will address the launch of a ballistic missile by North Korea. North Korea's launch of a ballistic missile is an outrageous act and entirely unacceptable. We will respond immediately,  maintaining the highest level of readiness.
Just a short while ago today, I had Commander John Aquilino of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command come to speak with me. We confirmed once again the strong will of Japan and the United States and also our cooperation, and we decided to undertake joint exercises.
In addition, after I finish this press conference with you, I plan to hold a telephone meeting with U.S. President Biden. We will confirm once again the strong cooperation we enjoy between Japan and the United States at the leaders' level.
I feel that it is incumbent upon us to confirm further, and indeed, reinforce, the cooperation that exists between Japan and the U.S., between Japan, the U.S., and the Republic of Korea (ROK), as well as between Japan and the ROK, in working towards the complete denuclearization of North Korea,
consistent with
United Nations Security Council resolutions.
(On Prime Minister Kishida's thoughts regarding the first year of his administration)
I feel that this has been a year of major developments that truly can be said to arise only once every few decades occurring one after another, to which we have been responding. The missile launch by North Korea that happened earlier is of course one such example, along with responses to COVID-19, Russian aggression against Ukraine, the energy and food cris
e
s and soaring prices that have accompanied those crises, and also former Prime Minister Abe getting shot.
My sense is that Japan and, indeed, the world at large are truly at a major and historic turning point. I feel that the Prime Minister's duty is to face such circumstances squarely and carve out the future while earning the public’s trust and sympathy. I intend to continue to work hard, dedicating myself completely, in fulfilling these responsibilities.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister