Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Attendance at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#COP
#ClimateChange
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Attendance at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28)
November 30, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On what message the Prime Minister plans to deliver toward the realization of a carbon-free society at the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP) and what outcome the Prime Minister expects from the conference, as well as the status of coordination for Summit Meetings with the leaders of other countries over the situation surrounding Israel and Palestine, and how he plans to approach his counterparts to calm down the situation.)
I am leaving for Dubai, United Arab Emirates, to attend COP28 (the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). I will take the opportunity of this COP to clearly demonstrate Japan’s determination to play a leading role in seeking to achieve the common goal of net-zero through various paths in Asia, which is responsible for half of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions, in line with what was agreed upon at the G7 Hiroshima Summit under Japan’s initiative by mobilizing all of its technology and financial capabilities.
Regarding the situation surrounding Israel and Palestine, I would like to take this opportunity to have a candid exchange of views with the leaders of countries like Israel, Egypt, Jordan and Qatar that play an important role in peace and stability in the region. In doing so, I hope to confirm our solidarity in calming down the situation as soon as possible and improving humanitarian conditions, among other things.
In addition, as I have heard that Prime Minister Meloni of Italy, which will serve as G7 chair next year, will attend the conference, I hope to have an exchange of views with Rome regarding international affairs, along with meetings with the leaders of other participating countries that I hope to hold by making the most of this opportunity to have more exchanges of views regarding the current international affairs.
(On the passing of former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger)
As you have mentioned, I understand that former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger passed away on November 29 local time. As you have pointed out, the former secretary of state has significantly contributed to the peace and stability in the region, including through the normalization of diplomatic relations between the U.S. and China. I myself have had a number of occasions of meeting with him since my younger days and had the pleasure of enjoying his expertise. I would like to offer my sincere respect for the great path he has taken to date, as well as my heartfelt condolences.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister