Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Hiroshima Round Table 2021 (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Hiroshima Round Table 2021
December 22, 2021
Tweet
[Provisional Translation]
Distinguished guests, I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan.
I would like to express my heartfelt congratulations on the successful opening of the Hiroshima Round Table 2021.
Nuclear disarmament is my work for life. It is a huge and difficult challenge, but one towards which I have been devoting myself with strong conviction. As Prime Minister of Japan from Hiroshima, I will spare no effort in taking any step possible that will move us closer to a world without nuclear weapons.
The next NPT Review Conference is only less than two weeks away. This time, we must adopt in earnest a final document that would constitute a substantive step forward towards a world without nuclear weapons. In order to achieve a meaningful outcome at the Conference, Japan will make its utmost efforts while leveraging my own efforts, including at the summit level and through closely coordinating with countries concerned.
At the same time, Japan will play an active role for the substantive advancement of effective nuclear disarmament measures, such as the CTBT and an FMCT, as well as for the enhancement of transparency of nuclear arsenals, in order to make any possible gains in nuclear disarmament with the involvement of nuclear-weapons States.
What truly matters is finding a way to make compatible two different things?namely, the reality of the severe security environment and the ideal of a world without nuclear weapons. It is up to us to pave a path via which we can navigate from the reality towards that ideal.
I would like to conclude my remarks by expressing my sincere hope that such a path to a world without nuclear weapons will be vigorously discussed at today's Hiroshima Round Table.
Thank you.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister