Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Gavi COVAX AMC Summit 2022 (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Gavi COVAX AMC Summit 2022
April 8, 2022
Tweet
Excellencies,
Colleagues,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The world has been confronting the COVID-19 crisis for over two years now. We have learned a lot during this time, and we have developed a powerful tool in the form of vaccines. However, there still remains a "vaccine equity gap" in the world. The key to truly overcoming this pandemic is to ensure equitable access to vaccines in every country and region of the world, so that "no one's health is left behind." Now is the time to demonstrate our solidarity through action and to take further steps to overcome the crisis.
Japan has already disbursed USD 1 billion to the COVAX Facility and has donated more than 43 million doses of vaccines to countries and regions in need. In addition, Japan has provided "Last One Mile Support" totaling approximately USD 160 million in 77 countries and regions to strengthen vaccination capacity, including through the development of cold chain systems and addressing vaccine hesitancy.
Furthermore, in response to the variants of COVID-19, as well as to prepare for future pandemics, Japan has recently pledged a new contribution of USD 300 million to CEPI.
Today, as a further contribution for robustly supporting the achievement of equitable access to vaccines, taking into account the circumstances surrounding this replenishment and relevant efforts, Japan hereby pledges to contribute up to USD 500 million to COVAX in addition to the contribution of USD 1 billion that it has already disbursed. In order to deliver vaccines to every corner of the world, Japan will continue providing tailor-made support based on the needs of each country under the the principle of human security.
Japan is determined to continue to lead international efforts to achieve universal health coverage and overcome the COVID-19 pandemic in close cooperation with the relevant countries and organizations.
Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Summary (MOFA website)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister