Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio on the occasion of TICAD 30th Anniversary Event (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#TICAD
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio on the occasion of TICAD 30th Anniversary Event
August 26, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Excellencies, Distinguished guests and participants,
In 1993, TICAD was launched here in Tokyo as an international conference on African development. Thirty years have passed since then, and I am delighted to join with you today to commemorate the 30th anniversary of TICAD.
After the end of the Cold War, it was Japan and TICAD that were quick to emphasize the importance of African development and to raise the international community's interest in Africa. The key development philosophies that TICAD put forth were "African ownership" and "international partnership" in African development. These ideas gained the support of African countries and spread and took root in the international community.
Over the past 30 years, Japan has materialized our commitment to promoting Africa's growth by working closely with Africa. The reason why I stated at TICAD 8 that Japan aspires to be "a partner growing together with Africa" is to take these efforts one step further. We will steadily implement our commitments, including investment of $30 billion as the sum of public and private financial contribution over the next three years.
In the turbulent international situation, Africa is facing various challenges such as economic stagnation that continues even after the pandemic, soaring food and energy prices due to the situation in Ukraine, and the impact of opaque and unfair development finance. Africa is also suffering from conflicts and terrorism. On the other hand, Africa's importance and voice in the international community has been increasing over the years. Based on such situation, I visited major African countries in the East, West, North, and South, just prior to the G7 Hiroshima Summit, to listen to various challenges each country faces. I then linked the results of these visits to serious discussions at the Hiroshima summit.
Excellencies, Distinguished guests and participants, in light of these changes in the times, what should be the future of TICAD? On this milestone occasion of its 30th anniversary, I sincerely hope that a lively exchange of views will be held on TICAD's past progress and future prospects, and that your wisdom, experience, and enthusiasm will be conveyed as a message to the young people who will lead the future of Japan and Africa, and will pave the way to the future development and security of Africa, including discussions on TICAD 9 to be held in Yokohama in 2025.
Thank you very much for your attention.
More
Related Link
Japanese
MOFA website
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister