Contributed Article by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio to The Nikkei’s Special Feature on the Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic Reconstruction (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#Ukraine
Contributed Article by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio to The Nikkei’s Special Feature on the Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic Reconstruction
February 19, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Soon, two years will have passed since the eruption of Russian aggression. Even now, undeterred by truly daunting conditions, Ukrainians persevere with their determined efforts to defend their homeland and their freedom.
All throughout 2023, as chair of the G7 under the Japanese presidency, I set into motion considerable efforts through which the G7, and indeed the wider international community, united to provide strong support for Ukraine. I myself visited Ukraine last March, and in May I invited President Zelenskyy to the G7 Hiroshima Summit. Since then I have also had telephone conversations with President Zelenskyy numerous times.
Japan has engaged in discussions both within its own Government and with Ukraine on how to provide support for Ukraine’s reconstruction efforts through public-private cooperation, from Japan’s unique perspective. That process will come to fruition today as we convene the Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic Reconstruction, with Prime Minister Shmyhal also in attendance.
Ukraine ardently anticipates the participation of Japan’s private sector. What will be key is for us to take an “all-Japan” approach in which we leverage the technologies and knowledge of Japanese companies, with not only major corporations but also small- and medium-sized enterprises and start-ups playing a role.
Ukraine is one of the world’s foremost agricultural powers, and its economy holds great potential. Recently the decision was taken to open EU accession negotiations with Ukraine, and the nation’s ever-greater integration into the European economy is also expected over the years to come.
One prominent feature of Japan’s initiatives over the medium to long term will be public and private sector entities working together. We look forward to our efforts prompting economic development that harnesses Ukraine’s potential while also catalyzing greater vitality of the world as a whole, including Japan.
Today’s conference is also an invaluable opportunity to emphatically communicate to the international community the contributions Japan has been making. We will work with great endeavor and resolve in company with our partners in the international community while linking achievements devised in Japan into international cooperation and partnerships that provide support for Ukraine.
Japan will make every possible effort to enable peace to descend on the beautiful lands of Ukraine at the earliest possible time.
More
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister