Address by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Summit of the Future  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#UnitedNations
#NuclearDisarmament
#Nonproliferation
Address by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Summit of the Future
September 22, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Excellencies, Dear colleagues,
As the world stands at a historical inflection point, we need to collectively take “actions” to safeguard the interest of present and future generations. In times where nations with diverse values must collaborate, clear guiding principles are critical. Allow me to share what I believe are most important to ensure a future defined by peace, freedom, and prosperity.
First, we must uphold the “rule of law”. The principles of the UN Charter are the fundamental guidelines for our actions. Unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force cannot be tolerated anywhere in the world. Only the free and open international order -based on the rule of law- can deliver sustainable development and prosperity.
Last May in Hiroshima, I shared the views on this fundamental principle with the leaders of G7, Brazil, India, Ukraine and other countries.
Second, defending “human dignity” is paramount. No single country can tackle poverty, climate change and other complex crises alone. International cooperation is indispensable.
“Human dignity” is the foundation for all international cooperations, and reaffirming this principle is essential to fulfilling the 2030 Agenda's promise to “leave no one behind.”
Third, we must make a determined effort to “invest in people,” guided by the concept of human security. Empowering women, children and youth is a top priority. Japan has been a global leader in championing universal health coverage (UHC) and quality education. Japan will launch a programme dedicated to nurturing the next generation of leaders in the field of gender.
Fourth, we must address the increasingly dire situation surrounding nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. No matter how difficult the path to a world without nuclear weapons may be, we cannot stop our progress. Japan remains committed to promoting realistic and practical efforts, including the forthcoming launch of the ‘Friends of FMCT’, towards a world without nuclear weapons.
Fifth, UN Security Council reform. The Summit of the Future is witnessing a clear call from Member States for action on reform, with a majority supporting the expansion of both permanent and non-permanent seats. A great majority are also acutely aware of the Security Council's vital role in international peace and security and the urgent need to reform it and restore confidence in its effectiveness.
Next year marks the 80th anniversary of the foundation of the United Nations. We should take concrete actions towards the Security Council reform. Japan is determined to continue to contribute to the realization and maintenance of international peace and security by strengthening the free and open international order based on the rule of law, in a reformed Council.
Humanity around the world raises its voice for the future of the international community. It is time for shared responsibility and genuine solidarity. The UN’s role is more vital than ever, as we navigate the new possibilities, opportunities and risks, brought forth by digital technologies including AI.
World leaders must unite under the banner of multilateralism, empowering every individual so they can realise his or her full potential and build a better future. Japan remains unwavering in its commitment to the United Nations.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Visit to the United States: Second Day
Address by Prime Minister Kishida at the Summit of the Future (Summary)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister