Prime Minister Kishida's Acceptance Speech at the Global Goalkeepers Award 2023 Ceremony (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
Prime Minister Kishida's Acceptance Speech at the Global Goalkeepers Award 2023 Ceremony
September 20, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
1 Introduction
Ms Melinda Gates, Co-Chair,
Dr Bill Gates, Co-Chair,
Distinguished Guests,
As Prime Minister of Japan, I am truly honoured to receive the Global Goalkeepers Award 2023 today. I am deeply moved by the fact that this prestigious award ceremony is the first time in a year that I have had the opportunity to meet with Co-Chair Bill Gates, whom I respect.
First and foremost, I would like to once again pay tribute to the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for having carried out its mission of "helping to ensure that every person has the chance to lead a healthy, productive life" ever since its foundation, with a focus on global health, based on its belief that "all lives have equal value".
2 Acceleration of Efforts to Achieve the SDGs and Global Health
This year marks the midpoint toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), but the achievement of the SDGs is at grave risk. Against this backdrop, there is an ever greater need to accelerate efforts to achieve the SDGs. Especially, global health is an essential area for materializing human security. The COVID-19 has once again highlighted the importance of universal health coverage or UHC.
At the G7 Hiroshima Summit in May this year, discussions on global health focused on developing and strengthening global health architecture for enhancing prevention, preparedness, and response (PPR) for future health emergencies; contributing to achieving more resilient, equitable and sustainable UHC; and promoting health innovation. Japan expressed its intention to make public-private financial contributions totalling more than USD 7.5 billion, and the G7 highlighted its financial contributions totalling more than USD 48 billion from the public and 3 private sectors.
The private sector's further contribution, including from a financial aspect, is indispensable to solving global issues including global health challenges in particular. In this regard, I hope that the Gates Foundation will continue to play an active role. The Government of Japan also wishes to work more closely with the Gates Foundation toward achieving the SDGs by 2030.
3 Conclusion
I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the co-chairs of the Gates Foundation and all the people involved in this award. This honour was not achieved on my own, but with the contributions of the people of Japan and all the partners attending here today, who have worked hand-in-hand together.
Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida Receives the 2023 Global Goalkeeper Award (Summary)
https://japan.kantei.go.jp/101_kishida/actions/202309/20usa.html
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister