Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding Japan-U.S. Video Conference Summit Meeting (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding Japan-U.S. Video Conference Summit Meeting
January 21, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional Translation]
(Regarding a Japan-U.S. video conference summit meeting)
A short while ago, I had a video conference summit meeting with U.S. President Biden that lasted about 80 minutes.
At the outset of the meeting, we agreed that Japan and the Unites States should work together and deepen cooperation with like-minded countries in order to realize a "free and open Indo-Pacific." I expressed my intention to host the next Japan-Australia-India-U.S. summit meeting in Japan in the first half of this year by inviting President Biden to Japan, to which the President expressed his support.
In discussing regional situations, we agreed that Japan and the United States should work closely together on various issues concerning China, including those related to the East and South China Seas, Hong Kong and the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, as well as on the North Korea’s nuclear and missile issues. I also received strong support from President Biden for efforts to achieve the immediate resolution of the abductions issue.
We also agreed that Japan and the United States will continue to work together on the situation in Ukraine.
On the security front, I expressed my determination to fundamentally reinforce Japan's defense capabilities by newly formulating the National Security Strategy and other strategies, while President Biden expressed his unwavering commitment to the defense of Japan, including by the application of Article 5 of the Japan-U.S. Security Treaty to the Senkaku Islands.
On the economic front, I illustrated the idea of the new form of capitalism I am advocating, for which the President expressed his strong support. The President also explained the U.S. approach to economic policies, while also suggesting that we continue to hold in-depth discussions as fellow politicians on a face-to-face basis. We also agreed to deepen discussions on new policy initiatives for the realization of a sustainable and inclusive economy and society. Furthermore, we decided to launch the economic version of the Two Plus Two meeting at the ministerial level to promote comprehensive Japan-U.S. economic cooperation.
Regarding the nuclear disarmament, we welcomed the announcement this morning of the Japan-U.S. Joint Statement on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and confirmed our commitment to working together toward a world without nuclear weapons.
In a very relaxed atmosphere, I had frank and candid discussions with President Biden on how Japan and the United States can cooperate and lead the international community, and I believe it was a very meaningful meeting that will lead to the further strengthening of the Japan-U.S. Alliance in the future. Thank you.
(Regarding the cooperation toward a world without nuclear weapons and the exchange of opinions on the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons)
As has always been the norm when such summits are held, it is customary not to go into details about anything other than what I have said, so basically all I can say is that we agreed to work together toward a world without nuclear weapons, and as I mentioned earlier, we welcomed the issuance this morning of the U.S.-Japan Joint Statement on the NPT. Other than that, I should refrain from going into details.
(Regarding the reference to how the U.S. forces in Japan should prevent the spread of the COVID-19)
We also exchanged views on this issue as I proposed to discuss it. We agreed to continue to cooperate closely to prevent the spread of the COVID-19. I believe that details have already been made public. As you can see here again, we agreed to continue to work closely together in the summit meeting.
(Regarding the assessment of how the relations of trust have been built with the United States and the upcoming steps toward international conferences to be held this year)
I believe that this meeting was very meaningful in building and confirming our relations of trust, including those on a personal basis. Following a telephone conference and the COP26 (26th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) in Glasgow, this was my third meeting with President Biden. Today's meeting was particularly meaningful in that we were able to spend plenty of time exchanging views on a variety of issues.
As for your question regarding upcoming steps, it is necessary for Japan and the United States to fully communicate with each other on a regular basis. As I mentioned earlier, today, I proposed to host the next Japan-Australia-India-U.S. summit meeting in Japan in the first half of this year by inviting President Biden to Japan, to which the President expressed his support. I think this represents a very significant next step for us.
(Regarding President Biden's request concerning the situation around Ukraine and Japan's response to the matter)
President Biden and I shared the intention to work closely together to deter Russia aggression against Ukraine, while also ensuring continued close cooperation and communication with the United States and other allies and partners on taking strong action in response to any attack. Given the diplomatic nature of the discussion, let me refrain from going into further details.
(Regarding the exchange of views on China's growing influence)
We spent a lot of time exchanging views on China. We exchanged views on various issues concerning China and agreed to work closely together in opposing any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo in the East and South China Seas and economic coercion, as well as on other various issues.
Regarding Taiwan, we emphasized the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait and encouraging the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues. Let me refrain from going into further details.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister