Video Message from Prime Minister Kishida to the 29th International Conference for Women in Business  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#NewFormCapitalism
#DistribStrategy
#GenderEquality
Video Message from Prime Minister Kishida to the 29th International Conference for Women in Business
July 29, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Hello to everyone participating. I am Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio.
I wish to offer some remarks as you convene the 29th meeting of the International Conference for Women in Business.
Japan aims to create a society where diversity is respected, with all people amply demonstrating their individuality and their capabilities and able to feel their purpose in life. Realizing such a society will give rise to innovation in Japan and contribute to our sustained development.
The Government of Japan has set a target of having companies listed in the Prime Market segment of the Tokyo Stock Exchange attain a ratio of at least 30 percent female board members by 2030. As part of our efforts towards that end, we recently finalized our Intensive Policy for Women’s Empowerment and Gender Equality 2024, also known as the Basic Policies Related to Women 2024.
I believe that at today's Conference, there are a great many participants who are now making their mark in the business world. They will play a leading role as we move forward.
In addition to actively preparing the environment for hiring women, cultivating them as leaders, and appointing them to executive positions, we are strengthening the approach we take towards corporate senior executives, managers, and so on.
Furthermore, the Government is acting as one in various initiatives to support female entrepreneurs and provide support for making jobs compatible with housework, childcare, and health issues specific to women.
I understand that today is the first time in five years for this Conference to convene face-to-face. I will end my remarks with my hope that, as this year's theme "Diversity Leads" indicates, you will bring together a wide range of perspectives that will become a first step towards a better future.
Thank you very much for listening.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister