Vietnam Festival in Sapporo 2024 Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
Vietnam Festival in Sapporo 2024 Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida
August 13, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Xin chào (Hello). I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan. I would first like to express my sincere congratulations on the occasion of today’s opening of the Vietnam Festival in Sapporo 2024 with a large number of people gathering there.
I would also like to express my respect for the efforts made for holding this festival by those concerned from both Japan and Vietnam, including Mr. TAKEBE Tsutomu, Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, and Mr. NAKATA Takahiro, Chairman of the Executive Committee, as well as H.E. Mr. Bui Thanh Son, Vietnamese Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is present at the event.
Last year marked the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Japan and Vietnam. The foundation for further deepening and developing the friendly relations between the two countries is people-to-people exchanges and mutual understanding.
This festival is an ideal opportunity to deepen our mutual understanding. I hope that those visiting enjoy the festival and interact with each other to the full.
For around 30 years since I became a Diet member, I have visited Vietnam many times as a member of the Japan-Vietnam Parliamentarians’ Friendship League, deepening friendship with people in the country. Building upon such a bond with Vietnam, I will devote myself to the development of the bilateral relations between the two countries.
In closing, I would like to express my hope for the further development of friendly relations between Japan and Vietnam through this festival. Xin Cám ơn (Thank you).
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister