Address by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the International Fleet Review 2022 (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the International Fleet Review 2022
November 6, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
It is my great honor to host the Western Pacific Naval Symposium (WPNS) and International Fleet Review in
Japan.
History shows that, although human beings have frequently engaged in conflicts at sea, they have also
become connected by the oceans through people-to-people exchanges and maritime trade. Naval power has
become indispensable for each country to protect their national interests and to increase national presence.
It has come to play a role in supporting the development and prosperity of the world by ensuring safety at
sea, especially by maintaining sea lane security.
As naval power became a public good and the importance of military professionalism increased, sailors were
required to acquire not only technical knowledge but also professional military ethics.
Acknowledging this historical background, naval personnel from across the globe – having inherited the
traditions of seamanship – deeply understand the roles and responsibilities of navies, and have thereby built
confidence with other countries.
In the WPNS, since its inauguration in 1988, maritime leaders of the Western Pacific region have met
biennially to discuss cooperative initiatives.
It consists of 22 member countries and eight observer countries. Despite the different backgrounds of each
country, the WPNS serves as a platform for multilateral maritime cooperation, where all member countries
aim to build confidence among their navies.
For example, it has played a leading role in promulgating naval professionalism and seamanship in the
Western Pacific region by agreeing to the Code for Unplanned Encounters at Sea (CUES), which establishes
how vessels and aircraft should behave when foreign navies unexpectedly come into contact.
I would like to extend a warm welcome to the vessels and aircraft from many countries joining us for today’s
International Fleet Review. By taking advantage of this opportunity, I expect that mutual confidence between
foreign countries – including yours – and Japan and the Japan Self-Defense Forces will become even more
robust, and will further deepen our cooperative relations toward the realization of a “Free and Open Indo-
Pacific.”
While we are making sincere efforts to enhance such cooperation and trust, the tense situation due to
Russia’s aggression against Ukraine has continued for more than half a year, and its outrageous act
continues to undermine the very foundations of the international order built upon the tireless efforts and
sacrifices of our ancestors over a long period of time. This is a serious situation not only for Europe, but also
for the entire international community including Asia.
The security environment is rapidly becoming more severe in the areas surrounding Japan, including the
East China Sea and the South China Sea. This year, North Korea has launched ballistic missiles with
unprecedented frequency, including that of a new type of ICBM. They even launched a missile which flew
over Japan. We absolutely cannot allow nuclear and missile development by North Korea.
We cannot tolerate any attempts, such as Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, to unilaterally change the
status quo by force anywhere in the world.
In order to protect the people and ensure peace and stability of the region, we will seek to build a stable
international order through dialogue, not confrontation.
At the same time, however, we must be prepared for the emergence of an entity that disturbs the peace and
security of other countries by force or threat without honoring the rules.
Toward this purpose, by the end of this year, Japan will formulate a new National Security Strategy and
related documents, and will fundamentally reinforce Japan’s defense capabilities within the next five years.
In doing so, we will accelerate our realistic considerations of what is necessary to protect the public, without
excluding any possibilities.
Among defense capabilities, maritime capabilities have a significant influence on Japan’s strategic
environment, as my country is surrounded by sea. No time can be lost for the enhancement of our defense
capabilities, including the buildup of vessels, reinforcement of capabilities to respond to missile attacks, and
improvement of the treatment of Self-Defense Forces personnel.
In addition, we will further reinforce the deterrence and response capabilities of the Japan-U.S. Alliance.
For 77 years since the end of World War II, Japan has consistently walked the path of the Nation of Peace,
carrying in our hearts, the strong will to become prosperous together with countries of the region.
As we have done throughout this time, Japan will continue to strictly adhere to the tenets of a peaceful nation, and we will continue to transparently and thoroughly explain our security initiatives to not only our public but also the international community.
I would like to ask each of the participants here today to try to explain their respective security policies in a
transparent manner too.
Finally, I would like to offer some words to the members of the Maritime Self-Defense Force (MSDF), which
is hosting this iteration of the International Fleet Review.
From my heart, I appreciate your deep sense of duty to achieving the mission – 24 hours a day, seven days
a week.
As the Commander-in-Chief of the Japan Self-Defense Forces, I am proud of you.
You are engaged, day and night, in tense ISR activities in the areas around Japan.
And to ensure the safety of civilian ships, you engage in counter-piracy operations and information gathering
activities far away from home.
The difficulties that you face at the forefront of such missions, spending long periods away from your families
through wind and rain is immeasurable.
However, each and every effort that you make contributes to the peace and stability of Japan, the region, and the world.
Your preparedness allows the people of Japan to live without worries.
In light of the increasingly severe security environment we face, I expect you to further temper and train
yourselves with the determination to protect the lives and livelihood of the people, and Japan’s territorial land, sea and airspace.
I would like to conclude my remarks by expressing my sincere gratitude to the families of MSDF personnel
for your continuous support.
KISHIDA Fumio
Prime Minister of Japan
Commander-in-Chief of the Self-Defense Forces
November 6, 2022
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister