Address by Prime Minister Kishida at the “Quad Cancer Moonshot” launch event on the sidelines of the Japan-Australia-India-U.S. (QUAD) Leaders’ Meeting  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#QUAD
Address by Prime Minister Kishida at the “Quad Cancer Moonshot” launch event on the sidelines of the Japan-Australia-India-U.S. (QUAD) Leaders’ Meeting
September 21, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
President Biden, Prime Minister Albanese, Prime Minister Modi, and all distinguished guests, I am very pleased to attend the “Quad Cancer Moonshot” launch event.
Joe has dedicated his passion and efforts to combating cancer for many years. I would like to sincerely congratulate him on the culmination of that passion through cooperation among the QUAD, and I express my deepest respect for his leadership.
Japan, the U.S., Australia, and India demonstrated strong solidarity during the COVID-19 pandemic. Now that we have entered the post-COVID era, it is becoming increasingly important to address various health challenges that have been stagnated by COVID-19. Dedicating efforts to health and safety in the region including combating cancer is indeed a timely initiative.
Japan has been contributing to the Indo-Pacific region in combating cancer by providing equipment, technical assistance, and support through international organizations and initiatives, as well as by advancing cooperation with each Quad country’s cancer-related institution.
Furthermore, Japan has contributed to the prevention and control of cervical cancer by providing medical equipment and facilities, technical assistance, and making contributions to international organizations such as Gavi, UNFPA, IPPF, etc.. Japan intends to continue similar efforts.
The QUAD will work closely together with a view to combating cancer more effectively by combining their technologies and networking capabilities.
Thank you for your attention.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister