Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Hydrogen Council Global CEO Meeting (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#NewFormCapitalism
#GrowthStrategy
#SciTechInnovation
#GreenTransformation
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Hydrogen Council Global CEO Meeting
June 2, 2023
Tweet
Related Videos
Open
Close
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan. I extend my sincere congratulations on the opening of the Hydrogen Council Global CEO meeting today.
The world faces climate change and other various challenges as we speak. At the G7 Hiroshima Summit, we intensively discussed these challenges, face to-face with the leaders of the G7 countries, as well as with our important partners including the delegates from the Global South countries.
As we discussed energy, we were able to share the concept of “One Goal, Various Pathways," whereby we take energy security, climate crisis, and geopolitical risks as a whole in our pursuit of the common goal of net zero under various pathways according to each country's circumstances.
With this in mind, Japan will promote the "Asia Zero Emission Community" initiative, thereby we together strive for achieving energy transition in Asia, while utilizing our decarbonization technologies and experience including hydrogen and ammonia.
During the Hiroshima Summit, Mister Prime Minister Chinh of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam kindly took part in a tour to board the world's first liquefied hydrogen carrying vessel, which the Japanese companies built. We will accelerate our investment with a view to realizing large-scale hydrogen supply chains across the Asia-Pacific region.
I understand that the global energy transformation will require approximately USD 700 billion investment in hydrogen by 2030.
We, Japan, are strongly promoting a “green transformation” policy, including introduction of hydrogen, and to this end, we have set up a legal framework under which the government may make upfront investment of 20 trillion yen (approximately USD 150 billion) as an inducement to further public and private investment at the size of over 150 trillion yen over the next ten years.
In addition, we are revising the Basic Hydrogen Strategy for the first time in six years. We plan to set high goals, such as the introduction of 12 million tons of hydrogen in 2040, and enhance certainty for the private companies to determine long-term investment, whilst stimulating large-scale hydrogen supply and demand.
Today, the world’s leaders and drivers of a hydrogen economy have gathered here in Awajishima. Let us join forces to create strong investment and growth momentum in hydrogen, and move together towards global decarbonization.
Last but not least, I would like to extend my best wishes to your success and for the development of the global hydrogen market. Thank you and I wish you enjoy your stay in Japan.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister