Message from the Prime Minister on the Occasion of Marine Day 2022 (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Message from the Prime Minister on the Occasion of Marine Day 2022
July 18, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
I am truly glad to commemorate Marine Day 2022.
Japan, a nation surrounded by the sea on all sides that enjoys one of the world’s largest maritime areas under its jurisdiction, has greatly benefited from the sea to develop itself since ancient times.
In order to remain a prosperous maritime nation that enjoys the abundance of the wide and free ocean well into the future, we must protect the sea and work toward further development while also taking advantage of science, technology, and innovation.
For the purpose of protecting maritime peace and security, we will strive to improve our maritime law enforcement capabilities, such as through continuous training programs to respond to suspicious vessels, and to strengthen our ability to assess maritime
security
situation, such as through the steady enhancement of coastal radar systems.
Japan is also rich in mineral resources in the surrounding waters. From the viewpoint of economic security, we will work to secure domestically produced marine resources by determining the volume of resources and developing and verifying production technologies.
Responding to climate change, Japan has set a goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. To achieve this, we need to introduce renewable energy sources to the maximum possible extent, including by promoting offshore wind power generation, which we expect will
serve as a promising driver
. By taking advantage of
the Act of Promoting Utilization of Sea Areas in Development of Power Generation Facilities Using Maritime Renewable Energy Resources
, we will accelerate the introduction of offshore wind power generation
as an approach that will be less costly and more stable in the long term
and contribute to regional development. We will also work to develop world-class, state-of-the-art technologies for floating offshore wind power generation systems.
To end this message for Marine Day 2022, I would like to express once again my appreciation for the benefits we receive from the sea and a wish for the maritime nation of Japan as well as the world to enjoy ever-greater peace and prosperity.
Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister