Speech by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Generative AI Side Event (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#NewFormCapitalism
#GrowthStrategy
#SciTechInnovation
Speech by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Generative AI Side Event
May 2, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Secretary-General, Mr. Mathias Cormann, distinguished delegates, thank you for joining this side event today.
It is my belief that generative AI has the potential to be a vital tool to further enrich the world. AI will make great contributions toward finding solutions to various issues including healthcare and climate change, in a way that was unthinkable in the past.
At the same time, one cannot shed light only on the bright side of generative AI. We must also confront the dark side of AI, such as the risk of disinformation.
In order to mitigate such AI-related risks, while also maximizing its innovative opportunities, there is an urgent need to establish international governance to achieve safe, secure, and trustworthy AI. With this in mind, I launched the Hiroshima AI Process, which led to the development of the International Guiding Principles as well as the Code of Conduct for AI developers and contributed to reducing specific risks related to generative AI.
Cooperation with the OECD, considered to be the world's largest think tank, has been essential in these efforts. I welcome the updates of the OECD Principles on AI as a concrete outcome of the OECD.
As AI is an innovative technology that affects humanity at large, it is important that many countries share a common understanding on its use and development. I am pleased to announce that the Hiroshima AI Process Friends Group kicks-off today, with the participation of 49 countries and regions, including many OECD members, as a voluntary framework of countries supporting the spirit of the Hiroshima AI Process. Together with the members of the Friends Group, we will work to implement the International Guiding Principles and the Code of Conduct to address the risks of generative AI and promote cooperation to ensure that people all over the world can benefit from the use of safe, secure, and trustworthy AI.
In addition to these efforts on governance, it is important to build up specific technical solutions to reduce risks in the fight against the dark side of AI. For this purpose, Japan will establish the GPAI Tokyo Center and provide robust support to projects such as technology demonstrations by a diverse group of experts. Japan will also support efforts toward the implementation of technology in real-life situations to verify originators of contents in order to address risks such as disinformation produced with generative AI.
Let us all work together to gather the wisdom of humanity so that we can prosper under the light of AI.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Side Event on Generative AI at the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting (Summary)
Visit to France (PM in Action)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister