Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at the Global Gateway Forum hosted by the European Commission (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#NewFormCapitalism
#GrowthStrategy
Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at the Global Gateway Forum hosted by the European Commission
October 26, 2023
Tweet
Related Videos
Open
Close
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
Ms. von der Leyen, President of the European Commission,
Distinguished guests,
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan.
I would like to express my sincere congratulations on the inauguration of the Global Gateway Forum today. May I also place on record my respect for Ursula's leadership in hosting this Summit.
On the sidelines of the G7 Hiroshima Summit this year, together with Ursula I hosted a side-event on the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII).
On that occasion we declared our vision of working together with partner countries through　infrastructure investment to promote clean energy, to build climate resilient societies, to strengthen supply chains, and to realise a society which leaves no one behind by connecting people with digital technology and transport infrastructure. We also declared our determination to ensure that these investments would be carried out in a transparent and fair manner and would contribute to the sustainable development of our partner countries.
In order to have the G7 PGII bear fruit and to realise high quality infrastructure investment, the mobilisation of private finance in collaboration with various actors is essential. Therefore, Japan invited the private sector to the PGII event at the G7 Hiroshima Summit for the first time, where we confirmed our commitment to work together.
The EU's ‘Global Gateway’ is an initiative to actively mobilise private investment for sustainable development across the world and is making an important contribution to the G7 PGII.
As the world stands at an inflection point in history, Japan and the EU are strategic partners who uphold the free and open international order based on the rule of law and are addressing jointly various challenges facing the international community. As reaffirmed at the Japan-EU Summit in July this year during my visit to Brussels, Japan will continue to work closely with the EU in this area, based on “the Partnership on Sustainable Connectivity and Quality Infrastructure between Japan and the EU”.
Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Side-event on the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment at G7 Hiroshima Summit (MOFA website)
Video message by Prime Minister KISHIDA at the Global Gateway Forum hosted by the European Commission (MOFA website)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister