Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at Raisina Roundtable @ Tokyo (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#FreeOpenIndoPacific
#G7
#G20
Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida at Raisina Roundtable @ Tokyo
March 7, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the internationally renowned Observer Research Foundation, Japan Bank for International Cooperation and Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Executives) for co-hosting the Raisina Roundtable @ Tokyo. I would also like to welcome all of you from India and around the world to Tokyo.
The international community is currently at a historical turning point characterized by the emergence of attempts that run counter to the conventional efforts to create a more integrated world. Among them is the remarkable growth of the Global South countries with India playing a central role and attracting attention from many directions. Last year, Japan and India closely cooperated as the G7 and G20 chairs respectively to deal with global issues. I am very glad to see the G20 Summit successfully held under the strong leadership of Prime Minister Modi and Minister of External Affairs Jaishankar.
Meanwhile, the security environment in the Indo-Pacific region, where both Japan and India are located, is rapidly becoming more severe. Under the increasingly severe and complex international situation, I have pledged to pursue a “realism diplomacy for a new era” that adheres to flexible and thorough pragmatism in which Japan will focus on values and principles such as freedom, democracy and the rule of law while firmly holding aloft the banner of ideals for the future.
The concept of the “Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP)” was first proposed in a speech that the then Prime Minister ABE Shinzo delivered in India in 2007. The idea of the FOIP has since been developed in a flexible manner that reflected various opinions. The FOIP, nurtured by voices from different countries, is meant to guide the international community in the direction of cooperation rather than division and confrontation.
On the occasion of my visit to India last year, I also explained principles for peace and rules for prosperity; addressing challenges in an Indo-Pacific way: a multi-layered connectivity; and extending efforts for security and safe use of the sea to the air, as new key pillars toward the realization of a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” in light of the current challenges. Furthermore, in order to achieve these goals, the entire Government is working to make it possible to further mobilize private funds through such measures as reviewing the development cooperation menu and amending the Japan Bank for International Cooperation Act.
We will transform the Japan-Australia-India-U.S. (Quad) cooperation into a next step through regular meetings of the Quad Leaders. Not only the Leaders but also the Foreign Ministers will repeatedly meet to solidify the unity of the four countries in the Indo-Pacific region toward the realization of a FOIP and we will work to formulate global rules for the 21st century.
The “multi-layered connectivity,” one of the above-mentioned new pillars for the FOIP, includes the “knowledge” connectivity that serves as an approach focusing on “people,” that is not limited to national level.
I would like to conclude by expressing my sincere hope that all of you gathered here at the venue will deepen the “knowledge” connectivity through lively discussions and contribute to the further development of the Indo-Pacific region. Thank you for your attention.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister