Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding the Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 79th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#OkinawaPolicy
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding the Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 79th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa and Other Matters
June 23, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On his thoughts following his attendance at the Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 79th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa and what he wishes to convey to future generations)
Today, on June 23, I attended the Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 79th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa and delivered an address. I offered my heartfelt condolences to the 200,000 people who lost their precious lives in the Battle of Okinawa. In doing so, I renewed my strong determination to never repeat the horror of war, as well as my sense of need for tireless efforts for world peace.
(On his reaction to the claim that, given the delay in the return of U.S. bases to Japan, the strengthening of the defense capabilities for the Nansei Shoto Islands runs counter to the plan to reduce the impact of the U.S. bases; and whether he intends to exchange views with Okinawa Governor Tamaki regarding the works for the relocation of the Futenma Air Station)
As Japan is said to be placed in the midst of the most severe international security environment of the post-war era, I believe that it is extremely important to strengthen defense capabilities to ensure peace in the region, including the Nansei Shoto Islands, and to take measures to defend the lives and livelihoods of the people, even in case of a contingency. My conviction is that such efforts for strengthened defense capabilities are never inconsistent with the initiatives to promote the realignment and reduction of U.S. bases to mitigate impact on the people. Regarding your question about dialogues, let me note that discussions have taken place at various levels with local people in Okinawa. Among the examples this year is a working-level meeting held in March for promoting the mitigation of impact, as well as the first-ever council in May regarding the influence from the construction works for the Futenma Replacement Facility. And today, I met with Governor Tamaki to exchange views. Going forward, through such opportunities, I will exchange views with local residents to offer careful explanations. Keeping this in mind, we will strive to mitigate impact on local communities.
(On the reason why, he referred to the issue of the collection of remains of Japanese war dead in his address at a time when there are concerns regarding the possible use of earth taken from the southern part of the main island of Okinawa, which may include such remains, for the relocation of Futenma Air Station to Henoko)
Regarding your question, let me point out that the sites from where we procure earth necessary for the landfill works for the relocation of the Futenma Air Station to Henoko have not been fixed, with multiple candidate sites cited in and outside the prefecture. Given this situation, efforts for the collection of remains of Japanese war dead is still under way in the prefecture, where residents underwent dreadful experiences in the ground battle that claimed many of their lives, and they are paying a great deal of attention to this matter. I understand that we must decide on the sites for collecting necessary earth while sufficiently considering such circumstances. I referred to this issue in my address at the memorial ceremony, based on the circumstances that I have just mentioned, which convinced me of the need for the Government to be well aware of the sentiments of the local people.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister