Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio  on the Occasion of the ASEAN Business and Investment Summit  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#ASEAN
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio  on the Occasion of the ASEAN Business and Investment Summit
September 4, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan. I am very pleased to have this opportunity today to address you, leaders in the business community and governments from around ASEAN.
One key word is "co-creation," in which the ASEAN countries with their remarkable growth and Japan with its cutting-edge technologies both leverage their strengths to build the future together. Under this key word, Japan, together with ASEAN, has overcome environmental, energy, digital, and other issues through innovation and undertaken a wide range of initiatives to build resilient and sustainable economies.
One of those initiatives is the concept of an "Asia Zero Emissions Community." Through the AZEC, Japan will support countries' efforts to accelerate diversified and realistic energy transitions.
Also, in fields where Japan enjoys strengths, including semiconductors, next-generation automobiles, aerospace, and advanced medical industries, we will promote open innovation with ASEAN nations and work together with them to create industries of the future.
In the digital field, we will work to enhance reliable data linkage and upgrade supply chains, making use of the Digital Innovation and Sustainable Economy Centre within ERIA, the Economic Research Institute for ASEAN and East Asia.
Free and fair economic rules are absolutely essential for vibrant economic activities. Such rules have been supported until now by the network of Free Trade Agreements that Japan and ASEAN nations have advanced, including, notably, the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, or CPTPP, and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement, known as RCEP. As for the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, or IPEF, Japan will make contributions by serving as a bridge between the U.S. and Asia.
I hope that the leaders from various countries who have gathered here today engage in future-oriented discussions and press ahead with further economic cooperation.
In December of this year, the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation, I will host an ASEAN-Japan Commemorative Summit. Together with that, we will hold an ASEAN-Japan Economic Co-Creation Forum as well as an ASEAN-Japan Young Business Leaders' Summit that will connect the next generation of leaders with each other. Let us utilize the outcomes of today's Business and Investment Summit as we work together to create a broad spectrum of concrete cooperative initiatives.
I will end my remarks with my sincere wish for the further development of ASEAN and the success of today's Summit.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister