Speech by Prime Minister Kishida at the Opening Plenary Session of the Summit on Peace in Ukraine (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#Ukraine
Speech by Prime Minister Kishida at the Opening Plenary Session of the Summit on Peace in Ukraine
June 15, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
First, I wish to express my sincere appreciation for the tremendous hospitality Switzerland has extended to us as well as the great efforts it has made in convening this Summit.
Since immediately after the aggression Russia launched more than two years ago, Japan has imposed stringent sanctions against Russia while providing strong support for Ukraine, based on the idea that “Ukraine today may be East Asia tomorrow.” Moreover, the day before yesterday, President Zelenskyy and I signed a bilateral document aimed at facilitating further support for Ukraine.
Also, in May 2023 at the G7 Hiroshima Summit I chaired, the G7 leaders held discussions in which President Zelenskyy and the leaders of invited countries also participated. In the course of those discussions, we confirmed four principles, including upholding Principles of the UN Charter such as respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity. I am delighted that, with those discussions in Hiroshima serving as the foundation, today representatives of some 100 countries and international organizations have gathered here in order to bring peace to Ukraine.
Today we have assembled here with one common aspiration in mind, namely, the desire to bring peace to Ukraine at the earliest possible time. And, that peace must be a just and lasting peace based on the principles of international law, including the UN Charter. We cannot allow anything that would justify unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion.
Achieving this kind of just and lasting peace in Ukraine is symbolically important in leading the international community as a whole towards a world of cooperation instead of a world of division and confrontation. Let those gathered here take the initiative and demonstrate leadership towards that end.
Even as the international community makes concerted efforts in that regard, there is also an urgent need to respond to pressing issues which have the potential to directly impact our lives and livelihoods. Japan has been making proactive contributions to discussions on nuclear safety, one of the themes of this Summit, as one of the co-chairs for that topic.
Humanitarian issues are also critically important. Japan will step up its efforts in the areas of electricity and mine clearance to enable the Ukrainian people to feel reassured as they reestablish their daily lives. We also plan to convene in Japan next year an international meeting on mine action, contributing in a manner only Japan can.
Working in close cooperation with the international community, Japan will continue in its efforts to restore peace to the beautiful lands of Ukraine.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister