Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Third Summit of the Crimea Platform  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#Ukraine
#G7
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Third Summit of the Crimea Platform
August 24, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan.
Let me express my sincere respect for the unwavering leadership of President ZELENSKYY, amid the difficulties of continuing Russia’s aggression, and reiterate our solidarity with people of Ukraine.
I visited Kyiv and Bucha in March of this year and witnessed first-hand the tragedy on the ground. It reinforced my conviction that Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is an outrageous act that undermines the foundations of the international order.
Japan has consistently supported Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, including Crimea. Japan will continue to work closely with the international community, including the G7, and impose strict sanctions against Russia while providing robust support for Ukraine.
I, as the G7 chair, hosted the G7 Hiroshima Summit Meeting in May of this year. At the meeting, with the participation of President ZELENSKYY, together with the G7 and invited countries, we shared the view that any unilateral attempt to change the status quo by force is unacceptable anywhere in the world and that it is important to uphold the free and open international order based on the rule of law. Furthermore, we sent the message to the world with historical significance from Hiroshima, that the G7 will never accept Russia’s nuclear threats, let alone its use of nuclear weapons.
Japan will steadily implement its various assistance amounting to 7.6 billion US dollars, based on the needs on the ground in Ukraine. Japan will make use of its experience and knowledge, accumulated in the field of postwar reconstruction and disaster recovery, to implement seamlessly "Japanese style” fine-tuned assistance.
Japan will stand with the people of Ukraine to restore peace on the beautiful land of Ukraine.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister