Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Second Summit for Democracy (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Second Summit for Democracy
March 29, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Hello everyone,
I would like to first express my appreciation to President Biden for his initiative on the occasion of the Second Summit for Democracy.
It has been more than a year since the last Summit for Democracy. Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, which started in the meantime, is an outrageous act that has shaken the very foundation of the international order. The unity of the international community is now tested more than ever to maintain and reinforce the free and open international order based on the rule of law.
As a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and the G7 President of this year, Japan is determined to be at the vanguard of efforts to maintain and reinforce that international order.
We must keep up our work to strengthen democracy through continuous and tireless efforts, including fighting against corruption, protecting and promoting human rights, and respecting diversity. These efforts are also key to achieving a sustainable society. Democracy delivers a prosperous future.
Democracy is driven by the people, and is also supported by the people. Japan has incorporated a set of key values including democracy, building on our history and culture. In our effort to share our experience with the international community, Japan has implemented various measures in a number of countries to support democratization, including improving judicial systems, and we have also been assisting in human resources development and institutional capacity building.
There is no finishing line in the quest for democracy; democracy needs tireless work. To that end, Japan has supported - and will continue to support - each country’s own initiatives with a focus on people. That is Japan’s unwavering commitment to democracy.
Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Photos (PM in Action)
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister