Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the IOWN Global Forum Annual Member Meeting (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#NewFormCapitalism
#GrowthStrategy
#SciTechInnovation
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the IOWN Global Forum Annual Member Meeting
May 8, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
This is KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan.
I am truly glad to hear that so many companies, educational organizations, research institutes and related parties playing a key role for the future of IT have come together here in Japan from all over the world. I would also like to extend my heartfelt congratulations on the holding of this 3rd IOWN Global Forum Annual Meeting in Osaka.
Today, in the world, people’s lives are being significantly enhanced thanks to innovations in ICT such as AI. The spread of COVID-19 has further highlighted the need for ICT. But these changes have also dramatically increased the volume of data exchanged and the power consumed for data processing, and if this trend continues, the entire world will not be able to sustain this pace. Our pursuit of convenience and prosperity for society requires global-scale innovations to reduce environmental impacts and realize the sustainable growth of society toward carbon neutrality.
I also have visited NTT Laboratories and have listened to Japanese and global researchers engaged in R&D on IOWN. IOWN can be a key to resolve common global issues, and the Government of Japan will provide firm support for it.
However, it is impossible for any one country alone to lead IOWN to success. We must bring together wisdom from every corner of the globe. The IOWN Global Forum is an international initiative gathering wisdom from all around the world.
Everyone works in unison to embody the ambitious IOWN concept of reducing impacts on the environment as well as pursuing prosperity. These are truly laudable goals, and I would like to express my respect once again.
At this annual general meeting, where everyone is gathered to look toward the future, I would like to conclude my remarks by expressing my sincere hope that you engage in active discussions and interchange of ideas, and that you will take a major step toward the embodiment of IOWN.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister