Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Three Seas Summit 2023 (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#Ukraine
Video Message by Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio at the Three Seas Summit 2023
September 6, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Your Excellency, Mr. Iohannis, President of Romania,
Distinguished participants,
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime minister of Japan.
The 3SI is an important initiative that will contribute to a strong, prosperous and united Europe by bolstering the connectivity of Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic States. As the security of Europe and the Indo-Pacific are increasingly recognized as inseparable, Japan strongly supports this initiative. I would therefore like to express my respect for Romania's leadership in hosting this Summit.
The importance of promoting infrastructure development based on 3SI is stated in a Strategic Partnership between Japan and Romania that President Iohannis and I announced in March of this year. In Romania, Japan's high quality technology is helping to strengthen connectivity, the best example is Braila Bridge, a large suspension bridge over the Danube River. Romania also plays a major role as the main export route for Ukrainian grain and the Braila Bridge is an important achievement of EU-Japan cooperation with regard to connectivity.
I understand that a business forum will be held tomorrow, the second day of the conference, with the participation of many Japanese companies with a view to further contributions by private sector actors in the region. The Government of Japan will also play an active role in encouraging further participation by Japanese companies under the 3SI.
We believe that the invitation of Ukraine and Moldova to this Summit is timely. Japan will continue to support Ukraine and its neighbors, and will work to stop Russian aggression against Ukraine as soon as possible and to achieve a just and lasting peace.
Thank you very much.
More
Related Link
Japanese
MOFA website
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister