Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida on His Attendance at the 2024 Peace Memorial Ceremony in Nagasaki and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#NuclearDisarmament
#Nonproliferation
#DisasterResponse
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida on His Attendance at the 2024 Peace Memorial Ceremony in Nagasaki and Other Matters
August 9, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening statement by Prime Minister Kishida]
Before I take questions from the press, as we begin this press conference, I wish to give some opening remarks regarding the earthquake with its epicenter in the Hyuganada Sea, Miyazaki Prefecture that struck yesterday as well as my visits to Central Asia and Mongolia.
As for injuries and damage from yesterday's earthquake with its epicenter in the Hyuganada Sea, as of now, there have been reports of multiple people suffering injuries and structures becoming damaged. There are also reports of ground liquefaction occurring in certain areas and we are making our greatest possible efforts to assess the damage and engage in swift responses.
In addition, yesterday, the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) issued a "megaquake advisory" under the Nankai Trough Earthquake Extra Information protocol. This information is a call to everyone in Japan to, in preparation for the possibility of major earthquakes continuing to strike, reconfirm their day-to-day preparations for earthquakes and prepare to evacuate soon after an earthquake strikes, and this is the first time for such an advisory ever to be issued. I also ask for everyone's cooperation in preventing the spread of disinformation.
I want to emphasize that this Nankai Trough Earthquake Extra Information does not call for evacuation in anticipation of an earthquake, and it is not something that will inform the public in concrete terms about earthquakes occurring within a certain period of time. That said, it is the first time for such an advisory to be issued, and I believe that the public harbors a lot of worry regarding the situation.
As prime minister, the person with the ultimate responsibility for crisis management, out of an abundance of caution, I have decided that I will stay in Japan for the roughly one week in which the JMA is calling on the public to reconfirm their earthquake preparations, and that the Government will make its greatest possible efforts in responding to the situation and disseminating information.
For that reason, I have taken the decision to cancel my visits to Central Asia and Mongolia scheduled for the immediate future. Today, after completing the scheduled events in Nagasaki, I will return immediately to the Prime Minister's Office and get to work responding to the earthquake disaster and to the Nankai Trough Earthquake Extra Information.
I will end my opening statement here.
Questions and Answers
REPORTER (NUNOTANI, NISHINIPPON SHIMBUN):
I am with the Nishinippon Shimbun, one of the coordinators of the press club. Thank you for taking my question.
This was also mentioned in the requests made earlier, but with regard to those who experienced the Nagasaki atomic bombings in areas outside the designated zones, in the investigation undertaken of atomic bomb witness accounts held in the collection at the Nagasaki National Peace Memorial Hall for the Atomic Bomb Victims, a total of 200 accounts of rain and airborne substances were confirmed, and yet the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare reached the conclusion that it could not regard the falling of rain and other circumstances as being objective facts.
With 79 years now having passed since the atomic bombings, there is a limit to demanding scientific and objective evidence. Some of the people affected are saying they hope for resolution of the matter through a political decision.
While there was a partial expansion in 2023, for victims in Nagasaki who experienced black rain, ash, and so on, has the time not yet come to recognize them as atomic bomb survivors -- as people who were affected by atomic bomb radiation -- by means of a political decision, in the same way that people in Hiroshima who were exposed to black rain have been recognized as atomic bomb survivors? I would like to hear your thoughts on this matter.
Also, within the context of increased tension continuing in world affairs, including Russia's nuclear threat within its invasion of Ukraine and the intensification of combat in Gaza in the Palestinian territories, what is your thinking on Japan's diplomatic role and how will you act on that in response to conflicts around the world and countries that brandish the use of nuclear weapons? With the 80th anniversary of the atomic bombings coming up next year, some atomic bomb survivors are calling on the Government of Japan even more intensely to ratify and sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
I would like to hear your thoughts on this as the prime minister of the only country to have suffered the devastation of atomic bombings during war, such as Japan's future responses, including whether or not Japan will participate in the Conference of the Parties as an observer, and how Japan will push nuclear-weapon states to act on this matter.
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:
As for your first question, today I met with those who experienced the atomic bombings and I listened directly to them as they spoke of their experiences until now.
You also referred to this in your question, but in addition to providing subsidized medical care for diseases and other infirmities caused by having experienced the atomic bombings, since April 2023, we have been making efforts to provide assistance to people who experienced the atomic bombings, including by adding certain kinds of cancer to the diseases whose treatment is subsidized. However, we are coming up to the point where in fact 80 years will have passed since the atomic bombings, and the people who experienced the atomic bombings are advancing in age.
In addition, people have pointed out the matter of fairness in contrast to the Hiroshima situation. I have instructed the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare to coordinate concrete response measures enabling the Government to swiftly resolve this issue in a rational manner in cooperation with Nagasaki Prefecture and Nagasaki City. A little earlier I confirmed this, directly instructing the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare to respond to the situation. I very much intend for the Government to press forward with coordination regarding concrete, rational means of resolving the matter.
Now, as for the second question, I feel the situation is quite harsh, with uncertainty growing in the international community and divisions widening, just as you stated. You asked about the role of Japanese diplomacy within that context. I believe it is precisely because the times are so uncertain that it is imperative for the international community to have a single general direction and a single yardstick for acting in cooperation, rather than division and confrontation.
It has been in that context that I have until now made emphatic appeals within our diplomacy for upholding and reinforcing the free and open international order based on the rule of law as a foundation on which the international community can cooperate and stand together.
Furthermore, I have advocated for responses based on the UN Charter and other international standards and made the appeal that, at the very least, unilateral changes to the status quo by force and attempts to change the status quo by force rather than the rule of law, are absolutely unacceptable. While making such appeals, I have continued my efforts, which have received the approval of a large number of countries, notably countries in the Global South.
I believe that, taking that way of thinking as Japan's diplomacy, we must work to persuade the international community at various levels, including at the summit level, regaining once again an international community that aims at cooperation rather than division and confrontation.
Then, the third question was about the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
I mentioned this at the meeting we just had to listen to people's requests, but the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and our Japanese diplomacy share the same goal and aim with regard to the overarching objective of seeking to achieve at a world without nuclear weapons. I believe that within our efforts, Japan, as the only country to have suffered the devastation of atomic bombings during war, must do its utmost in particular to shift in concrete terms the position of nuclear-weapon states, none of which have joined the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons.
Towards that end, first of all, within the framework of existing international discussions, I place importance on maintaining and strengthening the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) regime, a framework through which nuclear-weapon states sit at the same table as non-nuclear weapon states. And, as concrete efforts towards maintaining and strengthening the NPT, it will be critical in my view to advance in concrete terms the five pillars of the Hiroshima Action Plan, which I myself advocated to the international community at the NPT Review Conference two years ago.
And, as a more specific example, we can take two approaches, of banning nuclear testing or of prohibiting the production of material for nuclear weapons purposes. At the UN General Assembly two years ago, Japan pushed hard for a summit-level meeting of the Friends of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT), as we must create a concrete path forward that does away with nuclear weapons as we aim to realize a world without nuclear weapons. And, in March of this year, Japan established "Friends of FMCT," the Fissile Material Cut-Off Treaty, and the U.S., the UK, and France have all announced their participation in the Friends of FMCT summit-level meeting in the autumn.
I regard it as imperative that we advance efforts such as prohibiting nuclear testing and materials for nuclear weapons purposes while including such nuclear-weapon states as these. I recognize that it is important within the diplomacy of Japan, the only country to have suffered the horror of atomic bombings during war, to advance those efforts to see just how close, by pressing forward with these efforts, nuclear-weapon states can be brought to a world without nuclear weapons, which the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons also aims to achieve.
REPORTER (HARANO, JIJI PRESS):
I am Harano, with Jiji Press. Thank you for taking my question. The G7 countries' ambassadors to Japan chose not to attend today's Peace Memorial Ceremony, influenced by Nagasaki City not inviting the Israeli ambassador. The Government takes the position that this was the decision of Nagasaki City, but how do you regard the absence of the G7 ambassadors?
Concerns have been voiced by the atomic bomb survivors' groups regarding the responses of each country, including the nuclear-weapon states. Some have raised the point that the Government should have interceded between Nagasaki City and the embassies to coordinate the matter. Do you consider the Government's response to have been appropriate?
The peace memorial ceremonies have finished in both Hiroshima and Nagasaki. To bring about a world without nuclear weapons as you are advocating, surely it will be essential for you yourself, Mr. Prime Minister, to continually push for it. Do you intend to stand as a candidate in the Liberal Democratic Party presidential election, taking into consideration the importance of continuing with your policies on both the domestic and foreign fronts? By when will you make your decision about whether or not to stand for election in the party leadership race?
PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:
First, with regard to your question about attendance at the Peace Memorial Ceremony, the ceremony is an event held by Nagasaki City. I believe the Government is not in a position to comment on this, including regarding attendance by the diplomatic corps. And, in addition to that, we have been engaged in various kinds of interactions with both each country's diplomatic corps and also the Nagasaki City side for a long time, including through providing information on the international situation and other matters. That said, I would like to refrain from going into further detail.
And, as for your second question, I believe that, as the only country to have suffered the devastation of atomic bombings during war, Japan shoulders a historical mission to lead international efforts towards achieving a world without nuclear weapons. Furthermore, I myself have been working towards the goal of a world without nuclear weapons, considering it my life's work as a politician.
Regardless, I have been stating from long ago that now, as prime minister, I cannot concentrate on just this one issue. Diplomacy and security, the economy, and social issues - - in all these areas, Japan is facing circumstances in which we cannot let down our guard, and I must devote myself to tackling one by one various challenges that cannot be put off and deliver results one after another.
Although your question was concerning the party leadership race, I am thoroughly absorbed in pouring my heart and soul into tackling one by one these issues requiring immediate attention and producing results. Accordingly, I will refrain from saying anything more than that, as I have been stating for some time now. My answer is therefore the same now as before. That is all from me.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister