Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Attendance at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#ClimateChange
#COP
#G7
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Attendance at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28)
December 2, 2023
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On how Japan will tackle the issue of climate change as the Prime Minister expressed in his speech the country’s intention to end new construction of domestic coal power plants, among others, and how Japan will approach the summit meeting of the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) this month)
At this COP28 (the 28th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change), I once again appealed to other countries the approach in which all countries would put effort toward the common goal of net-zero, through various pathways, as affirmed as G7 chair at the recent G7 Hiroshima Summit. I also stated that Japan’s efforts toward its emission reduction goal were on track and explained the country’s initiatives, including its growth-oriented carbon pricing and the planned issuance of transition bond with international certification. At the same time, I announced that Japan would end new construction of domestic unabated coal power plants, as you have just pointed out. While stressing that Japan’s financial commitment was also on track, I stated that the country was ready to contribute to the expansion of lending capacity through the provision of credit enhancements to the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank. These are what I stated in my address at COP28, giving an explanation on Japan’s contribution and initiatives going forward.
Regarding the question on how to link this to the summit meeting of the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) planned for later this month, I presented at this COP the approach in which Japan would leverage its technological and financial capabilities to lead initiatives toward decarbonization in Asia, which serves as the world’s growth center and accounts for half of global greenhouse gas emissions. Japan will approach the AZEC meeting based on this policy. I intend to show the country’s posture to continue to fully demonstrate its financial and technological capabilities mainly in Asia to lead these discussions.
(On the outcomes of summit meetings with Middle Eastern countries regarding the deteriorating situation in Gaza and the Government of Japan’s initiatives going forward aimed at improving the situation as well as how to pass on the results of the Hiroshima Summit to next year’s G7 in a meeting with Prime Minister Meloni of Italy)
With regard to the situation surrounding Israel and Palestine, as you may already know, the pause in the fighting expired yesterday without agreement to extend it. As a result, the fighting resumed and the situation grew tense, which is deeply regrettable. Under these circumstances, I took this occasion to hold direct meetings between Japan and Israel, regional key players such as Qatar, Turkey, Egypt, and Jordan, as well as the European Union (EU). I will also hold talks with the leaders of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), France, and Italy afterwards.
I expressed to President Herzog of Israel my condemnation of the terror attacks by Hamas and explained Japan’s position to stress the importance of acting in accordance with international law, including international humanitarian law. Then I directly requested the improvement of the humanitarian situation. In a series of other meetings, I expressed concern about the grave humanitarian situation and extreme regret over the resumption of fighting and underscored the importance of returning to the agreement and calming down the situation as soon as possible, while seeking understanding and cooperation of each country. The leaders of these countries spoke highly of Japan’s assistance to Palestine and its neighboring countries, and I felt the magnitude of their expectations of Japan.
Even though the situation remains unpredictable, Japan will continue its diplomatic efforts, including G7 fora, toward the early release of hostages, the improvement of the humanitarian situation, and the early calming of the situation, based firmly on the results of face-to-face exchanges of views with the leaders of the relevant countries. As part of these efforts, I will hold a telephone talk with President Raisi of Iran today after this.
Concerning the question on the planned meeting with Italy, as you may already be aware, the country will hold the G7 presidency next year. In light of the outcomes of the G7 Hiroshima Summit, Japan will communicate with Italy at the leader’s, ministerial, and other various levels and strive to thoroughly pass on the discussions in the G7 to the country, in the run-up to the G7 Puglia Summit. I believe that today’s meeting is positioned as one of such efforts.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Prime Minister Kishida's Attendance at the 28th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) : Second Day
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister