Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida for the Opening Ceremony of the 9th Japan Vietnam Festival (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
Video Message by Prime Minister Kishida for the Opening Ceremony of the 9th Japan Vietnam Festival
March 11, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Xin chào (Hello).
I am KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan. It is my great pleasure to see a large number of people gathering at the opening ceremony of the 9th Japan Vietnam Festival.
On the occasion of this event, I would like to express my respect for the efforts of Mr. To Huy Rua, Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, Mr. TAKEBE Tsutomu, Honorary Chairman of the Executive Committee, Mr. Phan Van Mai, Chairman of the Executive Committee, Ms. HASHIMOTO Seiko, Chairman of the Executive Committee, and all other people concerned in both Japan and Vietnam.
Last year marked the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Japan and Vietnam. The bond between the two peoples has deepened thanks to more than 500 events in the two countries, including the Japan Vietnam Festival.
In a move symbolizing the deepening people-to-people exchanges between the two countries, many Vietnamese restaurants and groceries are now popular in Japan. Furthermore, I have heard that Japanese manga and anime are very popular among young people in Vietnam, with Japanese food such as sushi and yakitori (grilled chicken) also gaining popularity. I am glad that the two countries have become so familiar to each other.
For around 30 years since I first became a Diet member, I have consistently been engaged in activities of the Japan-Vietnam Parliamentarians’ Friendship League. I have visited Vietnam many times, deepening friendship with people in the country.
Last November, when President Vo Van Thuong visited Japan, President Thuong and I concureed to elevate the relationship between the two countries to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership for Peace and Prosperity in Asia and the World.” I hope that the friendly relations between the two countries will develop even further.
In closing, I would like to express my hope for the further deepening of people-to-people exchanges between Japan and Vietnam through this festival.
Xin Cám ơn (Thank you).
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister