Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Upcoming Visit to Australia and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#FreeOpenIndoPacific
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Upcoming Visit to Australia and Other Matters
October 21, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Kishida's upcoming visit to Australia)
First of all, for Japan, Australia is an important country which shares with us not only universal values such as freedom and democracy but also strategic interests. It is also a vital nation for Japan from the perspective of resources and energy. Beyond that, Japan regards Australia as a Special Strategic Partner that forms the core within the cooperation by the like-minded countries of Japan, Australia, India, and the United States.
During this visit to Australia, I intend to deepen my discussions with Prime Minister Albanese centered on three areas. The first of these is our security and defense cooperation, the second is a Free and Open Indo-Pacific, and the third is the issue of resources and energy.
As for security and defense, we released the Japan-Australia Joint Declaration on Security Cooperation in 2007, and since then, various cooperative relations have been developing between us in the fields of defense and security. I intend to make this an opportunity to confirm the results emerging from that cooperation thus far and also discuss our direction forward as we press ahead in cooperation into the future. With regard to energy, Australia is the largest supplier of liquefied natural gas (LNG), coal, and other kinds of energy to Japan. We regard Australia as a country that is absolutely critical for Japan’s energy policies.
During our summit meeting, I will discuss frankly with Prime Minister Albanese the importance of a steady supply of resources and energy, both now and into the future. I want to make this an opportunity to once again confirm that we will further deepen the solid bonds of friendship that characterize Japan-Australia relations, focusing mainly on these points I just mentioned.
(On UK Prime Minister Truss announcing her resignation)
As this is fundamentally a matter of British domestic politics, I feel it necessary to refrain from making any concrete comments from my position, but needless to say, I recognize the UK as a global strategic partner for Japan that shares fundamental values with us. I consider it imperative for Japan to continue to maintain close relations with the UK, such as regarding responses to Russian aggression towards Ukraine and regarding cooperation towards building a Free and Open Indo-Pacific. In light of that, I intend to pay close attention to developments within the UK going forward.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister