Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Attendance at the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings, the G20 Bali Summit, and the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#ASEAN
#G20
#APEC
#COVID19
#COVID19Vaccine
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Attendance at the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings, the G20 Bali Summit, and the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and Other Matters
November 12, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
From today, I will visit the three countries of Cambodia, Indonesia, and Thailand, in order to attend the three meetings of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)-related summit meetings, the G20 Summit, and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders' Meeting.
Against a backdrop of the free and open international order being threatened by Russian aggression against Ukraine, next year we will hold the G7 Hiroshima Summit, and next year also marks the 50th year of ASEAN-Japan friendship and cooperation. It is with our sights set on such a year that we will discuss international issues that include regional affairs such as Ukraine and North Korea, food and energy security, and also maintaining and strengthening the free and open trade system. In that context, I feel that it is absolutely imperative that I set out well-argued appeals for Japan's stances and assertions.
As for bilateral talks, there is a range of dates as there are three major meetings, so a number of them are still being coordinated. But as for the beginning of the trip, bilateral talks have been arranged with the United States and with Cambodia, the chair of ASEAN, and a trilateral among Japan, the U.S., and the Republic of Korea (ROK) has also been scheduled. Regarding bilaterals with China and the ROK, in which there is keen interest, we are moving forward with our coordination, with a view towards holding those meetings. Neither of those have been fully finalized. Other than those, many countries from Europe will also participate. I hope to arrange bilateral talks with as many Asian and European countries as possible.
As I just mentioned, there is a wide range of dates, so from now, we intend to finalize the schedule with each country one by one. That is as far as we have coordinated at present.
The upcoming diplomatic schedule is as I just mentioned, but there is one thing I would like to say about COVID-19.
First of all, I have been looking closely at the current trend in infections, and I have had an exchange of views with Dr. OMI Shigeru and three other experts. I urge members of the public to get vaccinated at an early time in order to protect both yourselves and people who are important to you. In addition, infections in colder regions are on the rise, so I also ask people to be mindful about sufficiently ventilating indoor spaces.
At the same time, I believe that the Government must proactively work to ensure that our medical and health care systems have high-fever outpatient facilities and have reinforced their systems for telephone and online medical consultations. Accordingly, we are now engaged in those efforts. The Government will continue to thoroughly undertake all efforts that need to be taken. That is the message I wanted to add regarding COVID-19.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister