Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding Telephone Talks with Dr. von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, and Mr. Zelenskyy, President of Ukraine (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding Telephone Talks with Dr. von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, and Mr. Zelenskyy, President of Ukraine
February 15, 2022
Tweet
[Provisional Translation]
(On telephone talks with H. E. Dr. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, and H.E. Mr. Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of Ukraine and other matters)
Earlier today I had two telephone talks, one with Dr. Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, and the other with Mr. Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of Ukraine. With the two leaders, I exchanged views on the situation in Ukraine. I reiterated Japan's consistent support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and both leaders and I agreed that persistent diplomatic efforts should pave the way for de-escalation.
President von der Leyen, meanwhile, deeply expressed her appreciation for the diversion of LNG shipment to Europe decided by the Government of Japan.
In any case, Japan is closely monitoring the situation in Ukraine with grave concern, and I believe that Japan should continue to appropriately respond in cooperation with the international community, including G7.
(On the status of consideration on the sanctions in the event of a military invasion of Ukraine by Russia)
As I have just mentioned, Japan's position is to vigorously seek a solution through diplomatic negotiations. Responding to your question as to how Japan would respond in the event of a military action or invasion by Russia, we would have to consider our response, including sanctions, according to the situation, in cooperation with G7 and the international community.
President Zelensky offered me a detailed explanation on the situation in Ukraine. I would like to refrain from elaborating on the details, but Japan is aware of various information, which enables us to closely monitor the situation. Basically, we hope that diplomatic efforts will lead to de-escalation, while continuing to coordinate closely with G7 nations and the international community.
(On whether details of possible sanctions against Russia would be carefully considered to avoid any negative impact on Japan's relations with Russia)
We expect that diplomatic efforts will lead to de-escalation, but given potential twists and turns down the road, we should refrain from making any comment based on prejudgment while also considering how we should respond depending on the situation. In any case, our basic position is to consider cooperation with the international community with our national interests firmly in mind.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Summary (MOFA website)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister