Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Visit to Nagano Prefecture and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#NewFormCapitalism
#GrowthStrategy
#SciTechInnovation
#GreenTransformation
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Visit to Nagano Prefecture and Other Matters
July 19, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the objective of the visit and his thoughts about it, as well as how he plans to reflect its results in the upcoming policies)
Today, I visited a facility run by SANU. Inc., a subscription-based second home provider, to inspect its pioneering model project of a circular economy. I believe that the business models embody the principles of the circular economy and include reducing waste comprehensively from a project's design phase and using the sharing economy to boost facilities' utilization rates. I also realized that this business model significantly contributes to the regional economy through the use of various regional resources and inviting those from outside as guests, leading to a more dynamic circulation of people between urban areas and regions. As I heard the explanation of its details, I felt that the project is instrumental in promoting both regional revitalization and a circular economy.
I also visited Toyama Prefecture last year to inspect local efforts for a circular economy. In addition, I have had opportunities to sit down with experts for exchanges of views at the Prime Minister’s Office and we have enacted the “Act on Promotion of Advanced Recycling Business for Resource Circulation” in the Diet. Seeking to achieve regional revitalization and economic growth simultaneously is in line with the principles of the New Form of Capitalism where we seek to solve problems and achieve economic growth at the same time. Based on this idea, the Government has decided to further promote circular economy as a national strategy. In a related move, we plan to newly establish the “Council of Relevant Ministers toward the Realization of a Circular Economy,” which was proposed by the Liberal Democratic Party. We plan to hold a meeting of relevant ministers by the end of this month to accelerate efforts for a circular economy not just by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Ministry of Environment, but across the entire Government as well, for the creation of the Reiwa era version of a circulation model for local production for local consumption, use of recycled materials and promotion of the recycling of used solar panels.
We will continue to create such opportunities for small group talks and exchanges of opinions regarding circular economy. We will also continue to pay close attention to the ideas and efforts by the younger generation, like the example of SANU that I visited today. On the basis of such dialogues and on-site visits, the entire Government will make more efforts for the realization of a circular economy. That’s all from me.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister