Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Visit to the United States of America and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
#DiplomacySecurity
#FreeOpenIndoPacific
#NuclearDisarmament
#Nonproliferation
#Ukraine
#DisasterResponse
#Quake2024NotoPeninsula
Press Conference by Prime Minister Kishida regarding His Visit to the United States of America and Other Matters
September 23, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the results garnered through the series of diplomatic occasions taking place during this overseas visit, Prime Minister Kishida's final one before resigning; on Prime Minister Kishida's thoughts upon looking back on diplomacy under his administration these past three years, regarding what successes he had and what issues remain; on what sort of diplomatic posture or efforts Prime Minister Kishida hopes the next administration will take, in light of his reflections; and on the Government's response to the breaching of Japan's territorial airspace on three occasions by a Russian military patrol aircraft near the island of Rebun in Hokkaido prefecture on September 23)
First, as for the results of this visit to the United States, at President Biden's private residence in Wilmington, Mr. Biden and I looked back on the unprecedented path we have taken mutually to raise the Japan-U.S. alliance still higher, and we had a deep discussion about the current international situation. We also confirmed that Japan and the United States must continue to stand at the very core of the free and open international order.
At the Japan-Australia-India-U.S. (Quad) Leaders' Meeting, we reaffirmed our commitment to realizing a Free and Open Indo-Pacific. Beyond that, we were in consensus that we will advance our cooperation in concrete terms in fields such as global health and maritime security as well as critical and emerging technologies, humanitarian assistance, and disaster relief.
Then, in New York, I attended the Summit of the Future, where I emphasized the agenda I consider critical in cultivating a global future defined by peace, freedom, and prosperity, and I called for unity under the banner of multilateralism. Also, from now I am scheduled to host the High-Level Meeting to Launch the FMCT Friends (Friends of the Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty) as a step towards bringing about a world without nuclear weapons.
As for three years of Kishida diplomacy, taking the safeguarding of Japanese nationals’ lives and property as my topmost priority, I have proactively pursued summit-level diplomacy to uphold and reinforce the international order based on the rule of law in order to lead the international community to cooperation, not division or confrontation.
For example, during my state visit to the United States this past April, Japan and the United States joined hands and demonstrated our stance of working to uphold and reinforce the international order as global partners, aiming to attain the future we desire. Also, at last year's G7 Hiroshima Summit, not only the G7 member countries but also countries in the Global South confirmed our unity. I consider national leaders' visit to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum to have been a highly significant opportunity in sending out to the world the message of the tragic realities of the atomic bombings.
I have significantly improved Japan-Republic of Korea bilateral relations, based on the foundation of the relationship of trust between President Yoon and myself, and I expanded and deepened our cooperation across a wide range of fields.
Regarding China, our countries are now in close communication at various levels, including notably with President Xi Jinping, as we work to comprehensively promote a mutually beneficial relationship based on common strategic interests and to establish constructive, stable Japan-China relations. And, last week it was announced that our two countries had reached a shared recognition in some regard on the matter of China's import restrictions on Japanese marine products.
Looking at Ukraine, asserting a sense of urgency that “Ukraine today may be East Asia tomorrow,” we have imposed severe sanctions on Russia while providing strong support to Ukraine.
There was also a question about issues still unresolved. As for such issues, first and foremost, it pains me profoundly that I was not through my own actions able to bring about the return of the abduction victims to Japan. Also, the division and confrontation within the international community is currently intensifying as a result of Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the situation in the Middle East. The responses to this division and confrontation will also become major issues in the future. Looking back on these three years, I feel that the world often holds high expectations towards Japan's diplomacy.
I very much hope that the next administration will also engage in diplomacy vigorously and proactively while placing value on the Japanese diplomatic pillar of working to bring about a Free and Open Indo-Pacific based on the rule of law.
As for your last question regarding the intrusions into Japan's territorial airspace by a Russian military aircraft, I have confirmed that a single Russian military aircraft intruded into Japan's territorial airspace three times yesterday, September 23 Japan time, to the north of the island of Rebun in Hokkaido prefecture.
Upon learning of the situation, I issued instructions on three points, namely, to respond calmly and resolutely in accordance with international and domestic laws and regulations, to work closely with the United States and other nations concerned, and to provide information to the public and the international community in a timely and appropriate manner.
The intrusions by the Russian military aircraft into Japan's territorial airspace are extremely regrettable. Japan has lodged a very strong protest against the Russian government through diplomatic routes and strongly urged the Russian government to ensure that similar acts do not recur. Under the determination to resolutely defend our territory, territorial waters, and territorial airspace, we will continue to undertake all possible monitoring and surveillance activities.
(On Prime Minister Kishida's thoughts about how he will advance efforts in nuclear disarmament diplomacy after stepping down as prime minister, after having made efforts during this trip to the United States to culminate his diplomacy in that area)
During my tenure as prime minister, I have appealed for a world without nuclear weapons through summit-level diplomacy and other means. Today, we are scheduled to hold the High-Level Meeting to Launch the FMCT Friends (Friends of the Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty). Even after I step down as prime minister, I must keep pushing for concrete results regarding the issues I have been working to tackle thus far.
As a member of the Diet, and indeed, as a person with his roots in the site of an atomic bombing, I intend to further advance these efforts and, with an eye on the greater objective of a world without nuclear weapons, I will continue with initiatives that facilitate the world taking even a single step forward towards the realization of that goal. Keeping in mind the point that it is important to advance measures one and then another in a realistic and concrete manner, I will continue to press on in this area.
I will end my remarks here.
More
Related Link
Japanese
Visit to the United States: First Day (1)
Visit to the United States: First Day (2)
Visit to the United States: Second Day
Visit to the United States: Third Day (1)
Visit to the United States: Third Day (2)
Tweet
Archives (Archived entries for the 101st through 103rd Prime Ministers)
The 103rd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2025
2024
The 102nd Prime Minister
ISHIBA Shigeru
Open
Close
2024
The 101st Prime Minister
KISHIDA Fumio
Open
Close
2024
2023
2022
2021
Tag List
View All
Related Pages
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister