Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding His Attendance at the Upcoming ASEAN-related Summit Meetings (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding His Attendance at the Upcoming ASEAN-related Summit Meetings
October 9, 2024
Tweet
October 9, 2024
[Provisional translation]
(On the kinds of statements Prime Minister Ishiba intends to make and the results he hopes to achieve at the summit meetings with ASEAN (the Association of Southeast Asian Nations) and at bilateral summit meetings during his first overseas trip since taking office as prime minister; on whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba intends to exchange views with his counterparts at the ASEAN-related summit meetings regarding his concept of an Asian version of NATO (the North Atlantic Treaty Organization))
Tonight, from now I will attend the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings. This will be my first overseas trip since becoming prime minister. A number of meetings will be held during this visit. I want to further strengthen the relationship of trust between Japan and ASEAN that has been fostered thus far. Also, as for what will be discussed, I plan to further advance Green Transformation (GX), Digital Transformation (DX), and cooperation in the area of security. Japan and ASEAN are positioned as "Trusted Partners." I wish to reconfirm and further strengthen that relationship.
Now, while this visit will have ASEAN meetings, I also intend to hold bilateral meetings. I will meet with Lao PDR, the host country, and the Republic of Korea (ROK), China, India, Australia, and Viet Nam. While there have been requests from many countries, because of scheduling considerations, I plan to have bilateral talks with my counterparts from Lao PDR, the ROK, China, India, Australia, and Viet Nam, as I just mentioned.
There are various issues to take up with each, but insofar as this will be my first time to meet with them, and we have time limitations as well, I think the important point is first of all to become well-acquainted with each other, and then, regarding our various issues, the main focus will be confirming with each other what issues exist between us.
For such topics as the Asian version of NATO, which you asked about, as I mentioned at the Party Leaders' Debate earlier today, even within the LDP, we haven't yet come to the stage of reaching a final conclusion. Accordingly, I have no intention of raising such topics for discussion. There is the idea to unify our recognitions regarding the security environment of this region, but as for the ASEAN meetings during this visit, I have no intention of raising any topics that haven't reached the final stages of consideration or had a conclusion reached even within the Liberal Democratic Party.
I will end my remarks here.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister