Video Message from Prime Minister Ishiba for the Opening Ceremony for the JETRO Kyiv Office (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message from Prime Minister Ishiba for the Opening Ceremony for the JETRO Kyiv Office
October 11, 2024
Tweet
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
I am Shigeru Ishiba, the newly appointed Prime Minister of Japan. I would like to extend my heartiest congratulations on the opening of the JETRO Kyiv Office and thank Prime Minister Shmyhal and all those present for their efforts in opening this office.
First of all, I would like to pay tribute once again to the courage and perseverance of the Ukrainian people, who have been struggling to defend their freedom and independence for two and a half years since the start of the Russian aggression against Ukraine. International order through the rule of law is a precondition for economic activity, and it is important to achieve a just and lasting peace in Ukraine as soon as possible.
The opening of the JETRO Kyiv Office, which was promised by the Government of Japan at the Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic Growth and Reconstruction held in Tokyo in February, has been realized today with the great support by the Government of Ukraine. The opening of this office shows Japan’s strong commitment to Ukraine’s reconstruction.
Ukraine is a country with abundant material resources and excellent human resources, and its economic reconstruction is essential for the world. The JETRO Kyiv Office will promote cooperation between Japanese and Ukrainian companies to expand investment and trade between our two countries.
In conjunction with the opening ceremony, ten Japanese companies are participating in the JETRO business mission. We hope that their actual visit to Kyiv and communication with Ukrainian companies will lead to new partnerships. We will continue to actively engage in efforts to promote partnership between companies from both countries.
Japan will continue to contribute to the sustainable development of Ukraine through public-private partnership by providing “uniquely Japanese” support to address the challenges Ukraine face, such as economic reconstruction and a stable energy supply. I sincerely hope that the JETRO Kyiv Office will serve as a bridge for the further development and prosperity of our two countries. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister