Contributed Article by Prime Minister Ishiba to the Vientiane Times - “Japan and ASEAN shape the future together as “Trusted Partners” (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Contributed Article by Prime Minister Ishiba to the Vientiane Times - “Japan and ASEAN shape the future together as “Trusted Partners”
October 10, 2024
Tweet
I would like to congratulate the Lao PDR for hosting the ASEAN-related Summit meetings. It is my great pleasure to pay a visit to Laos on my first overseas trip since assuming office as Prime Minister of Japan. I am very excited to be in Laos for the first time.
Japan and ASEAN countries including Laos have built a relationship as “Trusted Partners” through years of cooperation and exchange in a wide range of fields.
Last year, Japan welcomed the ASEAN leaders to Tokyo and hosted a Commemorative Summit to celebrate the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation. At the ASEAN-Japan Summit today, I would like to highlight how Japan has made steady progress in cooperation in a wide range of areas based on the joint vision set forth last December, and that Japan has also been working towards “Enhancing Connectivity and Resilience,” which is the theme promoted by Laos as the ASEAN Chair.
I will enhance cooperation between Japan and ASEAN to shape and safeguard the future of the region together.
Japan will lead the regional cooperation to address new challenges such as Green Transformation and Digital Transformation, which ASEAN places great importance on, aiming to shape the future together with ASEAN.
Regarding Green Transformation, the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting will be held in Laos in conjunction with the ASEAN Summit. Japan would like to take this opportunity to further promote decarbonization efforts in the region in a manner consistent with economic development. On Digital Transformation, Japan will work for the development of the digital sector in ASEAN countries by formulating a roadmap for concrete cooperation, including AI human resource development.
Japan is the first partner to have expressed its support for the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), and has been consistently backing its implementation. In this regard, Japan intends to strengthen cooperation on maritime security, economic security, and cybersecurity, and to work together with ASEAN to preserve the future.
The relationship between Japan and Laos has also steadily developed. The two countries have enjoyed bonds of trust and friendship for a long time. Laos was the first country to which Japan dispatched Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers (JOCV) in 1965. The many high-level visits between Laos and Japan this year reaffirm the continuation of cooperative relations in various fields.
Next year, Laos and Japan will celebrate a memorable milestone- the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. Based on our historical bonds, Japan will do its utmost to support Laos in realizing its bright future by achieving its goal of graduating from the Least Developed Country (LDC) status by 2026 and becoming an Upper Middle Income Country by 2030.
Building a peaceful and safe social infrastructure is essential for the sustainable development of Laos. The devastation caused by Typhoon Yagi in the Mekong sub-region last month reminded us of the importance of disaster prevention. I would like to express my deepest sympathy to all those affected by the calamity. Japan has also been striving to build a disaster-resilient society, drawing lessons from past catastrophes such as the Great East Japan Earthquake. Japan will make efforts to enhance the socio economic resiliency of Laos by providing emergency assistance and strengthening its disaster response capacity, making use of our expertise on disaster prevention. Japan will also assist in unexploded ordnance clearance.
Japan sincerely welcomes Laos’ participation in Expo 2025 in Osaka, in Japan’s Kansai region, to be held next year under the theme “Designing Future Society for Our Lives”. Looking to the future, Japan hopes that the Expo will provide an opportunity to connect Japanese companies with businesspeople in Laos, in addition to improving connectivity within Laos. To date, Japanese companies in Laos have nurtured human resources while creating local jobs and transferring production technology and management know-how, thereby supporting the sustainable development of the Lao economy. Japan will continue its efforts to further expand investment by Japanese companies in Laos.
As we celebrate on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries next year, Japan would like to join hands with the Lao people to raise our bilateral relations from the current “Strategic Partnership” to a higher level and to further deepen our cooperation in this new era.
Finally, I sincerely hope for the happiness of the Lao people and that our friendship based on mutual understanding and respect will continue for many years to come.
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister