Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba
October 1, 2024
Tweet
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
I am ISHIBA Shigeru, just appointed as the 102nd Prime Minister of Japan.
Today, the Liberal Democratic Party and Komeito have inaugurated a coalition Cabinet.
At the outset, I would like to express my heartfelt condolences to all those who lost their lives and extend my sympathies to those injured and affected due to the Noto Peninsula Earthquake as well as the recent torrential rains that struck the region. I would also like to express my sincere gratitude and respect to all those who are dedicating themselves to the relief efforts at this very moment.
What I have valued most as a politician for a long time is earning the “understanding and empathy” of the people. As I have always mentioned, my belief for nearly 40 years is that the role of politics is to tell the truth to the people with courage and sincerity. I will strive to pursue politics that is humble, sincere and warm.
This Cabinet will implement policies based on five key pillars that we intend to “uphold or protect.”
Firstly, we must “uphold the rules” in politics.
We must have politics that ensure the rules are upheld. I hope the Cabinet and the people will trust each other. Based on our trust in the people, we will tell the truth with courage and sincerity.
For us to gain the trust of the people, we need to immediately pursue political reforms. To restore the people’s trust in politics, we must demonstrate our commitment to consistently implement these reforms.
If political activities require funds, we must provide a thorough explanation to the people, while also ensuring our rightful commitment to full transparency in disclosing the details of the funds, which we believe have been collected with moderation.
Based on the Political Funds Control Act that was revised in the last Diet session, we will engage in concrete discussions to set up a third-party institution at an early date. At the same time, we will review the rules on political funds and establish a system that ensures these rules are upheld.
More than thirty years ago, soon after I was elected for my first Diet seat, distrust in politics was rampant, triggered by the so-called Recruit Scandal. Back then, young Diet members including myself, enthusiastically devoted ourselves to political reforms. More than three decades later, as the President of the Liberal Democratic Party, I am determined to resolutely carry out the Reiwa version of political reforms.
Secondly, we must “protect Japan.”
I am aware that the security environment surrounding Japan is the most severe since the end of World War II.
Based on the National Security Strategy, we will strive to strengthen our deterrence capabilities to protect peace and fundamentally strengthen defense capabilities.
Through pursuing diplomacy based on realistic national interests, while placing the Japan-U.S. Alliance at its core, we will expand the framework of friendly and like-minded countries seeking to achieve peace for Japan and regional stability, with our diplomatic and defense capabilities working hand in hand. In doing so, we will take the lead in efforts to respect the rule of law and further secure regional security and stability under a vision of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific.
In mentioning our commitment to fundamentally strengthen our defense capabilities in a steady manner, I am not merely referring to equipment. I am well aware of the urgent need to address the issue of the Self-Defense Forces, which is currently below the designated quota, by improving their treatment and working conditions, as well as by establishing a system that guarantees a new and comprehensive life design plan for them. To address this, I will set up a meeting of relevant ministers, chaired by myself as Prime Minister, to swiftly reach a concrete plan.
In addition to strengthening our deterrence and response capabilities, we will continue efforts to mitigate the impact of U.S. bases in Japan. We will also reinforce economic security and cybersecurity.
The abduction issue is a top priority of this Cabinet. With unwavering determination, we are committed to securing the return of all abductees to Japan at the earliest possible date.
We will also strive to ensure the safety of Japanese nationals residing abroad.
I recognize that Japan’s economy is at a crossroads of whether or not it can exit deflation. To achieve a “growth-oriented economy driven by wage increases and investment,” I will steadily continue the growth strategies pushed forward under the Kishida administration.
Standing on the principle that “a sound economy is the foundation of fiscal health,” we will prioritize breaking free from deflation in our economic and fiscal management. As a first step, I will instruct a prompt study of economic measures to assist those suffering from soaring prices.
We will ensure a shift from the conventional cost-cutting economy to one that generates high added value, aiming to make Japan a major destination for investment. We will also create new services. We will encourage investment so that exporting companies in industries such as automobiles, semiconductors and agriculture can achieve significant profits in overseas markets, while also enhancing industrial productivity.
We will steadily continue and further develop the efforts initiated by the Kishida administration to promote Japan as a “leading asset management center.”
More than half of Japan’s GDP (Gross Domestic Product)—approximately 54%, if I recall correctly—comes from individual consumption. Recognizing that supporting this is key, we will work to achieve both sustainable real wage increases and the alleviation of anxieties of individuals towards their future.
Thirdly, we must “protect the people.”
To protect the livelihoods of every Japanese citizen, we will implement urgent countermeasures against soaring prices as part of the upcoming economic package, such as benefits to low-income households. While striving to maximize productivity and helping to pass on cost increases to prices, we will aim to achieve a national average minimum wage of 1,500 yen per hour during the 2020s.
To address anxieties about the future, we will begin reviewing the existing systems of healthcare, pensions and social security, among other areas, to ensure they effectively respond to the current needs of society. We aim to alleviate the concerns that the people have regarding their future.
We will seek to create a virtuous cycle where increases in wages and consumption, combined with the expansion of capital investments—including those aimed at addressing labor shortages—lead to further wage increases. Our goal is not only to benefit certain companies but also to extend the positive effects of this policy to businesses in smaller regions.
In recent years, Japan has been struck by numerous natural disasters. The frequent occurrence of major typhoons and linear precipitation zones are examples of these disasters, causing devastation in various parts of the country almost every year. Japan is one of the world’s most disaster-prone countries. Given these circumstances, we will address the concerns of the people head-on by establishing a disaster prevention agency to ensure an effective system for protecting the people from disasters.
We will steadily promote the recovery and reconstruction from this year’s Noto Peninsula Earthquake and the recent torrential rains. We will make utmost efforts to reconstruct and revitalize the areas impacted by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011.
Fourthly, we must “protect the local communities.”
Local communities are the main driving force for growth. Japan possesses numerous advantages for promoting agriculture, fisheries and forestry. I am convinced that Japan is well-positioned for the development of these industries. As the first state minister in charge of regional revitalization and coming from Tottori Prefecture, the least populated area in Japan, I am fully committed to addressing this issue with strong determination, focusing on the regions as a catalyst for Japan’s economic growth, including in the tourism and service sectors.
As I often mentioned during my tenure as Minister of State for Regional Revitalization, various players and stakeholders are involved in efforts to revitalize regions: business communities, administrative authorities, educational institutions such as universities and senior/junior high schools, as well as financial institutions, workers and local media outlets.
Administrative authorities are not solely responsible for regional revitalization. Various regional stakeholders should share their ideas and expertise to promote development that is in line with each region’s unique characteristics. The Government will support this core concept.
We will establish the “Headquarters for Creating New Regional Economies and Living Environments” with a minister in charge to formulate a basic concept for intensive efforts to be made over the next 10 years.
The efforts will be vigorously promoted as the Regional Revitalization 2.0 initiative.
Fifthly, we must “protect the opportunities for youth and women.”
We must create a society where youth and women can pursue their respective paths to happiness and human rights are protected. We also must realize a society where everyone has access to optimal education. To this end, we will strive to carry out educational reforms.
As a target for both the public and private sectors, we will seek to create an environment where women’s rights are respected and their participation in all decision-making processes across all organizations is guaranteed. We will lead the national debate to identify ways and work toward systematic reforms to ensure that many women can participate in social activities.
I have spent many years making preparations. Now, I have finally gained the opportunity to dedicate all my resources to work for each individual citizen as a politician who has long been preparing for this role. I am determined to devote myself to this mission, realizing the five policy pillars with a view to creating and protecting the future.
For 38 years since I was first elected to the Diet, I have visited many places across Japan and listened to the voices of many people. Considering what is expected of politics now, I believe it is time for politicians to once again face each individual citizen straightforwardly. We should have dialogues with the people in order to bring about a Japan where everyone can feel safe and secure. I would like to create a Japan that brings safety and security to the people and enables them to smile again.
This Cabinet is based on “understanding and empathy.” To ensure politics for the people, we must first and foremost gain the understanding and empathy of the people. We will deliver politics under this principle in a straightforward manner.
Lastly, let me explain the upcoming political schedule.
I will dissolve the House of Representatives on October 9, with the campaigning period scheduled to begin on October 15 and voting for the General Election to take place on October 27. Given the short campaigning period, I apologize for any inconvenience and burden this may cause to all involved. I humbly ask for your understanding and cooperation.
To conclude my initial statement, I sincerely ask the people for their understanding and cooperation.
Thank you very much for your attention.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister