Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Attendance at a G7 Leaders’ Teleconference (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by the Prime Minister regarding His Attendance at a G7 Leaders’ Teleconference
October 2, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
In the wake of the escalating situation in the Middle East, I attended a G7 Leaders’ Teleconference a short while ago, marking my first appearance in a diplomatic setting. In the meeting, I and other leaders had a candid exchange of views and confirmed our close collaboration in the G7.
I stated the following three points. The first point addresses the need for close cooperation within the G7 framework, given the clearly interconnected security settings of the Indo-Pacific that extends to the Middle East, Europe and Japan.
The second point refers to Japan’s grave concern about the situation in the Middle East, including the latest attack by Iran, as well as our complete intolerance and strong condemnation of this escalation.
The third point emphasizes the importance of the G7 and the rest of the international community urging all those concerned to exercise maximum self-restraint and strive to calm down the situation. I also stated that Japan is ready to make utmost diplomatic efforts and will continue to approach Iran. That’s all from me.
(On whether there were any remarks from participating leaders, such as those expressing concerns about Israel, during the meeting where PM Ishiba expressed Japan’s condemnation of Iran; and the PM’s thoughts about his first attendance at a G7 Summit Meeting)
Regarding specific remarks made by each participating leader, we are not in a position  to disclose them. While I refrain from going into details of what each leader mentioned, I can tell you that I stressed the importance of the G7 and the rest of the international community urging all those concerned to exercise maximum self-restraint and striving to calm down the situation. That was the point that I emphasized. We will continue to work with the other G7 members.
Regarding your question about my thoughts on my first attendance at the meeting, several leaders made remarks such as: “We are glad to welcome you to this meeting this time.” Others commented: “As I understand you have worked on security issues for a long time, I look forward to having a meaningful exchange of views.”
Even before becoming the President of the Liberal Democratic Party and Prime Minister, I had long been interested in the situation in the Middle East and discussed the matter in a bipartisan parliamentary group. Partly due to this experience of mine, I was able to actively participate in the discussion at the summit meeting without hesitation. In light of Japan’s national interests, I will take advantage of this G7 arena to ensure that Japan’s positions are heard.
Related Link
Japanese
G7 Leaders’ Teleconference (Summary)
G7 Leaders’ statement on the situation in the Middle East
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister