Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Following His Participation in the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Following His Participation in the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings
October 11, 2024
Tweet
October 11, 2024
[Provisional translation]
(Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba)
I attended the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings as my first overseas trip since assuming the office of prime minister. These are extremely important meetings where the leaders of major countries around the Indo-Pacific meet together under the same roof. I consider these meetings to have been a valuable opportunity to meet many national leaders in person and to vigorously communicate Japan's position regarding the further strengthening of Japan-ASEAN relations as well as regional affairs and the international situation, including North Korea and the East and South China Seas.
At the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings, I conveyed my determination to further strengthen Japan's relationship with ASEAN, which Japan has fostered for over half a century, as true friends with "heart to heart" connections. In addition, various ASEAN member countries expressed their high expectations for advancing cooperation with Japan, their most trusted partner, across all possible fields.
People-to-people exchanges -- exchanges at the level of individuals – that cut across multiple generations are moving forward between Japan and ASEAN. Japan is also providing support for "connectivity" within the ASEAN region, by which I mean ASEAN countries becoming better connected among themselves, with Japan providing support in various areas, including digital technology, transport infrastructure development, and electricity connectivity. In the fields of infectious disease responses and disaster management, an area where I place particular importance, we will send Japanese experts as we work to increase the resilience of the region.
In addition to these, Japan announced that from now it will place priority on advancing cooperation in the new fields of Green Transformation (GX) and Digital Transformation (DX), and Japan and ASEAN agreed that we will cooperate as partners building the future together.
Japan is also a partner for regional peace and stability. We agreed we will, in addition to strengthening maritime security by providing patrol vessels and other initiatives, build up economic security including by enhancing supply chain resilience, and increase our cooperation in the field of cyber security.
With the security environment changing dramatically, this meeting was an important opportunity to have candid discussions with my counterparts regarding regional and international affairs.
I stated once again in unmistakable terms that the Principles of the UN Charter, including respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, are becoming increasingly important and that any unilateral changes to the status quo by force are absolutely unacceptable no matter where in the world they occur. I clearly conveyed Japan's position regarding regional affairs, including North Korea and the East and South China Seas, to all the leaders gathered. I also asked for the ongoing understanding and cooperation of the other leaders in working towards the immediate resolution of the issue of Japanese abductees.
As for the area of decarbonization, we just convened the second Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting, which I chaired. AZEC is an important framework for Asia together advancing efforts to achieve net-zero emissions through diverse pathways in a form that is compatible with both economic growth and energy security.
At this meeting we just held, in addition to the implementation of individual projects, we agreed on an action plan for the next decade, with a view to advancing AZEC to a new stage of policy coordination that includes the formation of rules.
I will also make some remarks on the bilateral summit talks that I just concluded.
With President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea (ROK), setting our sights on marking the 60th anniversary of the normalization of Japan-ROK relations next year, we concurred on enhancing our cooperation across a wide range of fields, including by promoting people-to-people exchanges, cooperating on the economic front, and building up trilateral security cooperation among Japan, the United States of America, and the ROK. We also reaffirmed that we will act in close cooperation in our responses to North Korea. President Yoon and I will continue to work in close cooperation, engaging in shuttle diplomacy and other efforts.
In my meeting with Chinese Premier Li Qiang, we were in agreement that we share in common the broad direction of Japan and China both continuing to comprehensively promote a Mutually Beneficial Relationship Based on Common Strategic Interests and also to build “constructive and stable Japan-China relations.”
I clearly stated Japan's position on outstanding issues of concern such as China’s military activities, including the intrusion into Japan’s territorial airspace, and the death of a Japanese child in Shenzhen. At the same time, I pointed out the potential for cooperation between Japan and China and confirmed that we will work to build up a track record of close communication in a multi-layered way, including at the leaders' level. Based on this meeting, I want the people of our two countries to make use of efforts by both countries' governments to form linkages enabling them to enjoy the fruits of Japan-China relations developing.
Lao PDR, the chair of ASEAN, welcomed me on this trip as an official visit. Prime Minister Sonexay and I agreed to aim for elevating bilateral relations to a "Comprehensive Strategic Partnership" on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Japan and Laos next year.
Prime Minister Albanese of Australia and I concurred on further advancing Japan-Australia security cooperation, including in terms of cyberspace and economic security, as well as on decarbonizing from an economic standpoint and on promoting a free and fair economic order.
Prime Minister Modi of India and I agreed to develop the Special Strategic and Global Partnership between India and Japan.
When I met with Prime Minister Chinh of Viet Nam, I announced emergency aid in response to the extensive damage wrought by the recent typhoon striking Viet Nam. We also agreed to strengthen cooperation across a wide range of fields as we agreed when we marked the 50th anniversary of the establishment of our diplomatic relations.
The other day, I made a pledge to the Japanese people upon newly taking the reins as prime minister, saying I will make a Japan that can deliver safety and security to all. In working towards that end, efforts to further ensure the stability of the Indo-Pacific region will also be absolutely indispensable. I believe it was extremely significant that through this visit I succeeded in laying out a general direction of strengthening our cooperative relations with ASEAN, which is strategically important, in a manner consistent with the needs of this new era. In addition, I had direct exchanges of views with other leaders of major nations and confirmed with them our overall direction for developing our bilateral relations. I will continue to leverage proactive diplomacy at the leaders level to cultivate more friends of Japan and more like-minded countries and I will make all-out efforts to ensure peace for Japan and stability for the region.
I also just received word that it has been decided that the 2024 Nobel Peace Prize will be awarded to Nihon Hidankyo, the Japan Confederation of A- and H-Bomb Sufferers Organizations. This organization has worked for the abolition of nuclear weapons for many years, and I regard it as tremendously meaningful that it will be the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize.
I will end my opening statement here.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister