Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Nagasaki Peace Memorial Ceremony (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Nagasaki Peace Memorial Ceremony
August 9, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Today, on the occasion of the opening of the Nagasaki Peace Memorial Ceremony on the 80th anniversary of the atomic bombing, as prime minister, I reverently express my sincere condolences to the souls who were victims of the atomic bomb. I also extend my heartfelt sympathy to those still suffering even now from the aftereffects of the atomic bomb.
It was 80 years ago today that this city was reduced to ashes in an instant by a single atomic bomb, leaving not a single tree or blade of grass. The lives and futures of what is said to be well more than 70,000 souls were obliterated by a plutonium-type bomb whose power surpassed that of the one dropped on Hiroshima. Many of those who perished were ordinary citizens. Even those who somehow escaped death despite this horrific scene suffered long-term health problems.
Now, 80 years later, as the division within the international community widens over approaches to nuclear disarmament, we find ourselves facing an extremely harsh security environment.
But even in the most severe circumstances, the mission for Japan, as the only country to have experienced the horror of nuclear devastation in war, is to lead the efforts of the international community to bring about "a world without nuclear war" and “a world without nuclear weapons” while firmly upholding the Three Non-Nuclear Principles. Taking one step forward and then another, we will steadily build up efforts over time to realize just such a world.
The foundation on which this is based is the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the mainstay of the international nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime. As the world prepares for next year's Review Conference of the Parties to the NPT, Japan, based on the Hiroshima Action Plan, will tenaciously urge both nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states to demonstrate the spirit of dialogue and cooperation to the fullest and act in unity in working towards a meaningful outcome. Japan will also continue to press forward with realistic and practical measures.
Communicating the realities of the atomic bombings is tremendously important as a starting point for all efforts aimed at nuclear disarmament. We have urged leaders and future leaders from all around the world to visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and many have come to see these cities with their own eyes.
The awarding of the prestigious honor of the Nobel Peace Prize last year to Nihon Hidankyo, the Japan Confederation of A- and H-Bomb Sufferers Organizations, was truly momentous, and I express my wholehearted respect to Nihon Hidankyo for its work over so many years in promoting the abolition of nuclear weapons and advancing understanding of the tragic realities of the atomic bombings.
Since taking office as prime minister, I have visited Ioto, a place of staggering loss of life during the war, the Himeyuri Peace Memorial Museum in Okinawa, and Hiroshima, where an atomic bombing took place, and today I have come here to Nagasaki. We must pass down as memories what unfolded here in Japan 80 years ago -- the reality and the tragedy of war, and the brutal impact of the harm wrought by the atomic bombings. We must not allow those memories to fade away under any circumstances. I stand determined to step up our efforts to advance accurate understanding of the terrible realities of the atomic bombings across generations and beyond national borders.
The Government will continue to advance comprehensive relief measures covering health and medical services and welfare of atomic bomb survivors, who are advancing in years. We will work to conduct screenings for recognizing atomic bomb diseases as quickly as we can so that we can convey the results as soon as possible.
In December we began providing to people who experienced the atomic bombings medical expense assistance equivalent to that provided to atomic bomb survivors for a wide range of common diseases. We will continue to implement these measures steadily.
Just now, ending an interlude spanning 80 years, two Angelus bells, pealing in unison, rang out with the same tonal resonance they did in the past, together with the Bell of Nagasaki here in Peace Park.
"It is my earnest prayer that Urakami may be the world’s final atomic plain."
These words referencing the devastated Urakami district of the city were left to us by the late Dr. NAGAI Takashi, who survived the atomic bombing while working at Nagasaki Medical College. The devastation that occurred in Nagasaki and Hiroshima must never be repeated.
The right hand of the Peace Statue points skyward, denoting atomic weaponry, while its left hand reaches out horizontally, in a prayer for peace. Standing before this Peace Statue, whose gently closed eyes are imbued with mourning for the victims, I pledge once again that Japan will continue to make its utmost efforts for the realization of a world without nuclear war and a world without nuclear weapons, as well as for the realization of eternal peace.
I will end my address with my heartfelt prayers that the souls of those who fell victim to the atomic bombing rest in peace. I also pray sincerely for the inner peace of the bereaved families and the atomic bomb survivors as well as all the participants today and the people of Nagasaki City.
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister of Japan
August 9, 2025
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister