Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding the Japan-U.S.-Philippines Leaders’ Video Conference and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding the Japan-U.S.-Philippines Leaders’ Video Conference and Other Matters
January 13, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the Japan-U.S.-Philippines leaders’ video conference; on how Prime Minister Ishiba intends to seek security cooperation with the United States regarding China’s intensifying maritime expansion as President-elect Trump will soon take office; on the status of coordination for a summit meeting between Prime Minister Ishiba and President-elect Trump; and on the details of the exchange of views in the video conference regarding the acquisition of U.S. Steel by Nippon Steel Corporation.)
A short while ago, I held an online meeting—or perhaps I should call it a video conference—with President Biden of the United States and President Marcos of the Republic of the Philippines. This meeting, which of course was significant as it took place during President Biden’s final days in office, followed the first-ever trilateral summit meeting in April last year and provided an opportunity for us to confirm the progress of our cooperation in areas such as maritime security, economic security and infrastructure resilience, as well as to agree on our commitment to continuing these efforts.
As the international situation is becoming increasingly complex, I believe the importance of Southeast Asia will continue to increase as it is positioned as a “key hub” within the Indo-Pacific and serves as a center for economic growth. With this recognition in mind, I was on a trip to visit Malaysia and Indonesia that lasted until yesterday, holding lengthy discussions with Prime Minister Anwar and President Prabowo. These meetings were held on the basis of the recognition that I have just mentioned. Today’s meeting among Japan, the United States and the Philippines was also held in the same context. Recognizing the importance of this region, I am committed to making further efforts toward realizing a Free and Open Indo-Pacific based on the rule of law.
With regard to security cooperation with the U.S., we are promoting various initiatives with the U.S. in a wide range of areas. These include command and control, defense equipment, technological cooperation, and cooperation among Japan, the U.S. and the Philippines, as well as enhancing our presence in the Nansei Islands, cross-domain operations and extended deterrence. Such cooperation with the U.S. is of utmost importance as President Biden also mentioned. We hope that these efforts will continue under the next U.S. administration as we believe this should be the way we work together.
Regarding the timing of my visit to the U.S., it has not been decided definitively yet. I understand that final coordination is underway with the hope of making it happen as soon as possible at the most appropriate time and in the most appropriate manner after the inauguration of the next Trump administration. The Minister for Foreign Affairs may discuss the schedule of my visit to the U.S. when he attends the inauguration ceremony. At this point, I cannot make any definitive comments, but we will continue to make efforts to realize it as soon as possible. I believe that Tokyo and Washington have a shared goal in this respect.
As for the issue involving U.S. Steel, I mentioned during today’s video conference that there are strong concerns not only from Japan but also from the U.S. business community, which President Biden is obviously aware of. These concerns are widespread in both countries, and I strongly requested that the concerns be eliminated. As for this issue, as well as others, there was no extensive exchange of views. Each of us expressed our thoughts and provided a summary and evaluation of the various initiatives that Japan, the U.S. and the Philippines have undertaken. Overall, I believe the three leaders reached a consensus. That’s all.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-U.S.-Philippines Leaders’ Video Conference
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister