Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Rinkēvičs of Latvia (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Rinkēvičs of Latvia
May 19, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
I am delighted to welcome President Rinkēvičs today. I understand that this is his first visit to Japan since taking office.
Japan and Latvia are important partners that share values and principles such as freedom, democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. Since the establishment of diplomatic relations in 1921, our two countries have maintained a friendly relationship for over a century.
As the security of the Euro-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific regions becomes increasingly inseparable, close coordination between our two countries is more important than ever.
I find it highly significant that during President Rinkēvičs's visit, we released the Japan-Latvia Joint Statement on Strategic Partnership and elevated our bilateral relationship to a strategic partnership.
In this statement, we agreed to further expand our cooperation in a diverse array of fields, including the strengthening of bilateral relations; politics and security; the economy; science and technology; people-to-people exchanges through culture and education; enhancing the functions of the United Nations, including Security Council reform; and cooperation in the international arena, including the areas of disarmament and non-proliferation.
We also discussed regional affairs and shared the recognition that any unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force are unacceptable anywhere in the world, and that we will continue to cooperate with the aim of achieving a just and lasting peace in Ukraine.
We further exchanged views on the situation in East Asia, including responses to North Korea concerning issues such as its nuclear and missile programs and the abduction issue, and we affirmed our intention to maintain close coordination going forward. We will continue working together to address a broad spectrum of global challenges.
Tomorrow, the National Day of Latvia will be celebrated at Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai, Japan. I understand that President Rinkēvičs will attend the event. I imagine that visitors will be met by a sea of Myaku-Myaku mascot dolls at the pavilion. I hope that occasions like this will further strengthen our bilateral relations across a wide range of areas.
Japan and Latvia will further deepen our bilateral relationship in numerous domains and work hand in hand as strategic partners to contribute to global peace and stability. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-Latvia Summit Meeting (PM in Action)
Japan-Latvia Summit Meeting (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister