Contributed Article "Japan walks hand in hand with Vietnam's development" by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Vietnamese newspaper Tuoi Tre (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Contributed Article "Japan walks hand in hand with Vietnam's development" by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Vietnamese newspaper Tuoi Tre
April 27, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Xin chào!
It is a great honor for me to visit Viet Nam for the first time as the Prime Minister of Japan since the elevation of Japan-Viet Nam relations to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership for Peace and Prosperity in Asia and the World” in 2023. This is my first visit to Viet Nam in many years, and my wife and I look forward to witnessing the country’s remarkable development.
Japan and Viet Nam are closely linked both geographically and historically, and have enjoyed friendly relations for centuries. In the 16th and 17th centuries, Japanese towns were established in Hoi An through the Red Seal trade. In the early 20th century, Phan Boi Chau studied in Japan in line with the Đông Du (Go East) movement, demonstrating that strong ties existed between our two nations even before the formal establishment of diplomatic relations. Today, Japanese people feel close to Viet Nam, as evidenced by the 710,000 Japanese visitors to Viet Nam in 2024. Additionally, around 2,000 Japanese companies have established operations in Viet Nam, making it an indispensable partner for Japan. There are currently 630,000 Vietnamese residing in Japan, and 620,000 visiting as tourists. In recent years, it has become increasingly common to hear Vietnamese spoken on the streets and to see restaurants serving bánh mì and phở in Japan.
Against the backdrop of these close social and cultural ties, high-level communication between Japan and Viet Nam has been conducted in a close and consistent manner. Viet Nam is placing strong emphasis on strategic infrastructure, science and technology, digital transformation (DX), and green transformation (GX) to promote industrialization and modernization, as well as on central and local administrative reforms in preparation for the “new era”- efforts that Japan welcomes and fully supports. Last year, I held meetings with the Prime Minister, Pham Minh Chinh; the President, Luong Cuong; and the Chairman of the National Assembly, Tran Thanh Man. During this visit, I look forward to working with the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Viet Nam, To Lam, and other Vietnamese national leaders to discuss ways to strengthen cooperation between Japan and Viet Nam in the areas of security, the economy, people-to-people exchanges, and responses to regional situations.
As Viet Nam's irreplaceable partner in its pursuit of rapid economic growth, Japan will continue to work closely with Viet Nam to develop and promote a favorable environment for investment and economic cooperation. We are willing to advance cooperation in foundational industries that support digitalization, such as semiconductors, as well as in promoting decarbonization across Asia through the Asian Zero Emissions Community (AZEC). We hope that these initiatives will also contribute to cooperation between the younger generation of Japan and Vietnam, who will play a crucial role in shaping the future of the world.
For the past 30 years since the Ishikawa Project supporting the shift to a market economy in Viet Nam in 1995, Japan has been cooperating with the people of Viet Nam in their economic development, leveraging Japanese technology and expertise through ODA and private investment. I am pleased to hear that many residents of Ho Chi Minh City are using the Urban Railway Line 1, which opened last year. In the field of disaster prevention, which has been my life’s work, we will support flood and landslide countermeasures, particularly in rural areas-, and also assist in enhancing the productivity and safety of agricultural products, with the aim of strengthening resilience and addressing inequalities, both of which are essential to sustaining Viet Nam’s robust economic growth.
Turning to the international situation, the global community is currently facing a complex and multifaceted crisis. Japan and Viet Nam have reaffirmed our commitment to maintaining and strengthening a free and open international order based on the rule of law as well as a multilateral free trade regime. In addition, our two countries have enhanced our cooperation in addressing various challenges. These efforts will contribute to regional stability and prosperity.
Finally, the Osaka-Kansai Expo opened on April 13 in Japan under the theme “Designing Future Society for Our Lives,” attracting many visitors. Viet Nam is participating in the expo with a pavilion under the theme of “An Inclusive Society Where People Are Centered”. I hope that this Expo will be an opportunity for many Vietnamese to visit Japan and further strengthen the friendship and mutual understanding between the peoples of our two countries as well as to explore various regions of Japan and experience their unique charm.
I am confident that my visit to Vietnam will further accelerate our cooperation and bolster the relationship between our two countries, bringing mutual benefits to both Japan and Vietnam.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister