Video Message by Prime Minister Ishiba at the 11th Mount Fuji Dialogue (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message by Prime Minister Ishiba at the 11th Mount Fuji Dialogue
November 16, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional Translation]
I am ISHIBA Shigeru, Prime Minister of Japan.
I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the 11th Mt. Fuji Dialogue. I am truly pleased to have this opportunity to speak to you as Prime Minister in this event, which I have attended several times in the past.
I express my deep respect to everyone who contributed to the realization of the conference, especially, the Japan Center for Economic Research and Japan Institute for International Affairs (Kokumonken).
As its name suggests, the Mt. Fuji Dialogue has been a valuable forum, bringing together “the highest peaks” from various fields — leaders, top executives, and experts from Japan and the United States — to engage in lively discussions. It goes without saying that these interactions are invaluable for further strengthening and solidifying the Japan-U.S. relationship.
The international community is experiencing deepening division and conflict today. Recently, North Korea launched an ICBM-class ballistic missile that reached an altitude of over 7,000 kilometers. Additionally, we are witnessing increased military activities by China, Russia’s unending aggression against Ukraine, the expanding military cooperation between Russia and North Korea, and the rising casualties in Gaza. Japan now faces one of the most severe and complex security environments after the end of World War II, and I believe the same can be said for other regions around the world as well. In this context, the Japan-U.S. Alliance serves as the cornerstone of Japan’s diplomacy and security, as well as a vital foundation for peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and the broader international community.
Japan is committed to continuing our close cooperation with the United States to further strengthen the deterrence and response capabilities of the Japan-U.S. Alliance. At the same time, we will work with like-minded countries to advance a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific”. Through these efforts, Japan will contribute to the realization of peace and prosperity both in the region and across the globe. I would be grateful for your continued support in these endeavors.
Lastly, I would like to express my hope that this Mt. Fuji Dialogue, which bridges industry, government and academia, will continue to flourish as a strong intellectual foundation for the Japan-U.S. Alliance, expanding as majestically and gracefully as Mt. Fuji itself.
Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister