Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Reaction to the Inauguration of Mr. Lee Jae-myung as the New President of the Republic of Korea (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Reaction to the Inauguration of Mr. Lee Jae-myung as the New President of the Republic of Korea
June 4, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Ishiba's reaction to the election of Mr. Lee Jae-myung in yesterday's Republic of Korea (ROK) presidential election and his inauguration as president, and on Prime Minister Ishiba's thoughts on Japan-ROK bilateral diplomacy, in light of Mr. Lee Jae-myung advocating "pragmatism" and indicating his intention to maintain Japan-ROK relations, in the context of Mr. Lee's party, the Democratic Party of Korea, taking a hardline stance towards relations with Japan)
Mr. Lee Jae-myung was elected in the ROK presidential election held yesterday, and he will soon be inaugurated as president. This is the outcome of the ROK's democratic process. I wish to express my respect for the choice made by the ROK citizens and I offer my sincere congratulations to Mr. Lee on his election and inauguration.
This year is also a milestone year in which we mark the 60th anniversary of the normalization of Japan-ROK relations. In this historic year, I want to activate Japan-ROK exchanges further, including among the general public.
Japan and the ROK share a lot in common. For example, we are both experiencing a rapidly declining birthrate and aging population and a heavy concentration of people and institutions in our capital cities. Both our countries are also allied with the United States, so that aspect of diplomatic and security policy is also among our many similarities.
I intend to take advantage of this 60th anniversary to leverage my relationship with President Lee Jae-myung to further invigorate bilateral Japan-ROK and trilateral Japan-U.S.-ROK cooperation. I consider that to be the major significance of the 60th anniversary.
Of course, within the ROK there are all kinds of public opinion, and while the new president has made various statements until now, during his election campaign he also stated that Japan is an important partner and that he himself likes Japanese people very much.
Mindful of that, I believe that for the Japan side, our ties will become stronger as we engage in active exchanges with the ROK in a truly candid manner, including among the general public. The Government will also work to bring about such exchanges.
(On whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba intends to continue to engage in shuttle diplomacy with the new administration, and on whether he intends to visit the ROK at an early time, and if so, approximately when)
The administration has just been launched, or should I say, has just now become poised to launch, so we have not had any discussions regarding such matters.
That said, I do think it would be best to have a Japan-ROK summit meeting as soon as possible while the government forms and starts to function, even during the transition stage, as the importance of shuttle diplomacy does not change regardless of what kind of administration takes the reins of government in the ROK.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister