Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding His Upcoming Visit to Malaysia and Indonesia (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding His Upcoming Visit to Malaysia and Indonesia
January 9, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Ishiba's objective in choosing to visit Malaysia and Indonesia and the Ishiba administration's diplomatic strategy for 2025; on the outcomes Prime Minister Ishiba is hoping to attain through this overseas visit in the economic and security fields)
This is my first time to head overseas, other than for international meetings. Malaysia is the chair of ASEAN (the Association of Southeast Asian Nations), and Indonesia has the largest population in Southeast Asia as well as an economy of size. As the international community becomes increasingly uncertain, Japan wants to place greater value on our relations with Southeast Asia.
As for Malaysia, the chair of ASEAN, and Indonesia, with the largest population in Southeast Asia and a sizable economy, it is of course true that until now I have had meetings individually with both Prime Minister Anwar and President Prabowo on the sidelines of international meetings, but I want to spend time with them [to discuss] the future of this region and security matters. The realization of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific will contribute to the peace and security of the international community. Moreover, Malaysia and Indonesia are both major energy suppliers for Japan, and I will ask them to continue to provide us with a steady supply of energy. Japan will also continue to make contributions towards the remarkable economic development seen in both countries.
While there are many other destinations I could have chosen for this overseas trip, for example the United States of America or China, or also Europe or the Middle East, I thought about the closest for Japan, both in terms of distance and also insofar as I want to further advance the strengthening of our relations with ASEAN.
(On the outcomes Prime Minister Ishiba is aiming to achieve in the economic and security fields)
The issue is what kinds of contributions Japan can make to the economic development of both countries. Japan has made quite significant investments in both countries over the years, so the heart of the matter is what kinds of contributions Japan will be able to make to these nations' future economic development, and, to repeat what I said earlier, I'd like to talk about the stable supply of energy, keeping firmly in mind that we should not rely solely on fossil fuels.
Regarding security, there is the question of what kind of security framework we can build in this region going forward. Yesterday, I received a proposal on this matter from Mr. Yamaguchi, the previous Chief Representative of Komeito, and with that kind of framework in mind, I consider it absolutely essential for us to foster relationships of trust.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister