Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Second Round of the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Second Round of the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures
May 3, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the briefing Prime Minister Ishiba received during a face-to-face meeting with Minister Akazawa, who recently completed the second round of tariff negotiations with the United States, and on what Prime Minister Ishiba instructed Minister Akazawa to do)
Just now I received a briefing from Minister Akazawa on the talks he participated in during his visit to the United States. Chief Cabinet Secretary Hayashi was also there when I heard his report. Basically, as I mentioned yesterday as well, in-depth discussions were held during the second consultation round, including the issue of how to treat sector-specific tariffs on automobiles and so on, and those discussions were constructive.
I was informed that we succeeded in deepening concrete discussions regarding such topics as expanding Japan-U.S. bilateral trade, non-tariff measures, and cooperation in the area of economic security. However, as I also mentioned yesterday, a gap remains between the positions of Japan and the U.S., and we are not yet at the point where we can identify areas of common ground. It is extremely regrettable, but beginning today, additional tariffs are also being imposed on auto parts. Japan's position remains unchanged, in that we will continue to urge the U.S. to review its series of tariff measures.
We have already begun following up on this at the working level, and the next ministerial-level consultation round, which will take place in mid-May or later, must result in further progress.  Accordingly, the question is how to deal with this matter in a way that leads us to that goal, and I want that examined and coordinated in a swift manner. However, I want this issue dealt with in a meticulous manner, and I instructed both Minister Akazawa and Chief Cabinet Secretary Hayashi to do exactly that.
At the April 25 meeting of the Comprehensive Response Headquarters for U.S. Tariff Measures, we released a package of emergency response measures comprising five major pillars, and even during the holiday period, we will continue to make all-out efforts as we undertake our domestic countermeasures.
(On Prime Minister Ishiba's reaction to reports by various media outlets that the U.S. side has indicated that it regards tariffs on automobiles, steel, and aluminum to be outside the realm of negotiations, contrary to Japan's request, and that the U.S. stated that only the additional 14 percent imposed in April as a reciprocal tariff would be on the table during consultations, and on what the Government's policy will be in its responses from now; also, on Prime Minister Ishiba's reaction to additional tariff measures being imposed on engines and other key auto parts, as he himself touched upon earlier, and his reaction to concerns regarding the impacts on the business performance of parts manufacturers)
We are holding consultations on all tariffs, including those on automobiles, steel, and aluminum. Although I am unable to provide any specifics beyond that, we are indeed engaged in consultation regarding the entire series of tariff measures, including those being imposed on steel, automobiles, and aluminum. As I mentioned earlier, it is truly regrettable that a 25 percent tariff on automobile parts went into effect today at 1:01 PM Japan time, and there is no change whatsoever in our position that we will continue to urge the U.S. to review its measures. Having taken a decision on the package of emergency domestic countermeasures, we will now redouble our efforts as we work to prepare all possible domestic responses.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister