Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Ceremony (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Ceremony
August 6, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Eighty years ago today, the violent explosion of a single atomic bomb deprived people said to number well more than 100,000 of their precious lives. Even those who escaped death suffered hardships beyond description.
As prime minister, I reverently express my sincere condolences to the souls who were victims of the atomic bomb. I also extend my heartfelt sympathy to those still suffering even now from the aftereffects of the atomic bomb.
It was a September day two years ago that I made my first visit to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum after it completed its renovations. Eighty years ago on that day, what was under that rising mushroom cloud? A city burned to the ground, reduced to ashes. Innocent people horrifyingly burned. People who had been relishing life until an instant before, transformed in the blink of an eye to mere silhouettes on the stonework, the consequence of a 4,000-degree blast of thermal radiation. Many of the victims were ordinary citizens. I found myself utterly speechless facing the reality that people's dreams and bright futures were stripped away from them mercilessly in a single instant.
The tragedies that ravaged Hiroshima and Nagasaki must never be repeated. While continuing to firmly uphold the “Three Non-Nuclear Principles,” Japan will lead the efforts of the international community to bring about “a world without nuclear weapons.” This is Japan's mission as the only country to have experienced the horror of nuclear devastation in war.
The widening of the division within the international community over approaches to nuclear disarmament has made the current security environment even more challenging. But that is exactly why we must make all-out efforts to bring about a world without nuclear war and a world without nuclear weapons under the regime of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), the cornerstone of the international nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation regime.
As the world prepares for next year's Review Conference of the Parties to the NPT, Japan will continue to strongly urge countries to demonstrate the spirit of dialogue and cooperation to the fullest. Moreover, based on the Hiroshima Action Plan, we will continue our efforts to identify concrete measures that should be taken jointly by both nuclear and non-nuclear weapon states.
What will serve as the foundation for making progress towards the realization of a world without nuclear weapons is accurately understanding the realities of the atomic bombings.
The awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize last year to Nihon Hidankyo, the Japan Confederation of A- and H-Bomb Sufferers Organizations, is of exceptional significance, and I once again express my deep respect to Nihon Hidankyo for its work over so many years in promoting the abolition of nuclear weapons and advancing understanding of the tragic realities of the atomic bombings.
The average age of atomic bomb survivors is now more than 86 years old. Many Japanese belong to generations that have never experienced war.
When I visited the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum, I renewed my strong determination that we must pass down across generational boundaries the unbearable experiences and memories of the bombing, never allowing them to erode under any circumstances.
The Government of Japan has been helping to make this a reality by urging leaders and young people from all around the world to visit Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The annual number of visitors to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum surpassed two million for the first time this past fiscal year, with more than 30 percent of its visitors coming from overseas. It is our responsibility to convey the realities of the atomic bombings to not only our fellow Japanese but also people in other nations.
Thirty years have now passed since the Atomic Bomb Survivors’ Assistance Act entered into effect. The Government will continue to advance relief measures covering the health and medical services and welfare of atomic bomb survivors in a comprehensive manner while staying in tune with survivors, who are advancing in years, including by conducting screenings for recognizing atomic bomb diseases as quickly as possible.
In closing, here in Hiroshima, I once again pledge that Japan will make its utmost efforts for the realization of a world without nuclear war and a world without nuclear weapons, as well as for the realization of eternal peace.
I offer my heartfelt prayers that the souls of those who fell victim to the atomic bombing rest in peace. I also pray sincerely for the inner peace of the bereaved families and the atomic bomb survivors as well as all the participants today and the people of Hiroshima City.
Affixed to the Monument of the A bombed Teachers and Students of National Elementary Schools, located in the green space adjoining Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park, we find Ms. SHODA Shinoe's tanka poem, which reads, "The heavy bone must be a teacher's. The small skulls beside it must be students gathered around." With a flood of emotions as I reflect deeply on those words, I hereby conclude my address.
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister of Japan
August 6, 2025
Related Link
Japanese
Hiroshima Peace Memorial Ceremony and Other Events (PM in Action)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister