Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Summit  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Summit
June 16, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
For roughly 30 minutes today beginning at 1 PM, I held a summit meeting with President Trump. President Trump and I reaffirmed that our countries will further reinforce the Japan-U.S. Alliance to promote a Free and Open Indo-Pacific and contribute to the peace and stability of the world to an even greater extent.
As for the series of tariff measures set by the United States, we are exploring the possibility of an agreement in a form that is consistent with Japan's national interests. Today, President Trump and I had candid discussions on this matter, and we agreed to instruct our ministers in charge to further advance our consultations.
I will talk about the discussions taking place at the G7 Summit in tomorrow's press conference. I will end my opening statement here.
(On whether or not Japan and the U.S. have engaged in negotiations until now with an eye towards the leaders achieving a certain degree of agreement at this bilateral summit meeting; on how Prime Minister Ishiba regards the progress and the outcomes achieved through this summit meeting, and on how he plans to move consultations forward in the future)
Thus far, both Japan and the U.S. have, without a doubt, engaged in sincere discussions with great intensity. Our sides have been exploring the possibilities for our negotiations right up to the last possible moment, but we still have not reached a shared recognition on the matter. Since some points of discrepancy remain, we have, accordingly, not reached agreement on the package as a whole.
It is in that context that today President Trump and I held a candid exchange of views and agreed to direct our ministers in charge to advance discussions further. The Japanese side will continue to firmly uphold our national interests as we assertively advance coordination between Japan and the United States so that we are able to, and actually, achieve an agreement that is mutually beneficial to both sides.
As for the timing, that is something pertinent to both sides, and insofar as it is imperative for us to thoroughly uphold Japan's national interests, it will be difficult to state definitively when these negotiations will conclude.
(On Prime Minister Ishiba's impressions after having his first exchange of views with President Trump since February)
We engaged in a tremendously frank exchange of views. We each spoke straight from the shoulder, addressing matters frankly and without concealing anything, in order to achieve what is in the national interests of both our countries.
(On where the two leaders did not see eye to eye)
These were diplomatic negotiations, so I won't discuss that.
(On the possibility of extending the pause on the implementation of U.S. tariffs by an additional 90 days)
I am also unable to address that matter.
(On whether or not a further extension was even a topic for discussion)
This is all currently being negotiated, so I am unable to comment on that.
(On future developments in the negotiations)
In negotiations, we always refer to the matters at hand being part of a "package." Nothing is decided with complete certainty until the very last moment. That means the entirety of the goal is getting the total package finalized. For that reason, it is not appropriate to say how far discussions have progressed until the negotiations have fully wrapped up.
(On future challenges)
Whether or not a package will be successfully negotiated depends on its ability to faithfully bring about both sides' national interests. In other words, will both countries' national interests truly materialize? For Japan, automobiles are an example of a significant national interest. We will make our utmost efforts throughout the negotiations in order to fully uphold our national interests.
(On whether or not such topics as the cost of stationing U.S. forces in Japan or the trade deficit were discussed)
Those kinds of topics did not come up today.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-U.S. Summit Meeting (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister