Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Mulino of Panama (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Mulino of Panama
September 5, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
Buenas tardes. Good afternoon, everyone. I am very pleased to welcome President Mulino of Panama and his spouse, who are visiting Japan to celebrate Panama’s National Day at Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai, Japan.
Panama, home to the Panama Canal, has built the foundations of its prosperity on free and open seas. Japan and Panama are resolved to work together to ensure that the world’s seas continue to remain free and open under the rule of law.
At the summit meeting we just completed, we agreed to advance our bilateral cooperation, including on the Panama Metro Line 3 project, which fully harnesses Japan’s technological capabilities. We were also fully in accord on strengthening our collaboration to enhance the functions of the Panama Canal and building up our economic relations, and on revitalizing our political and economic dialogues.
Panama began serving as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council this year, and it also currently serves as the chair of the Central American Integration System. I wish to express my respect for Panama playing an important role in the international community under the leadership of President Mulino.
At the working lunch later today, I plan to exchange views on collaboration toward the realization of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific, on regional affairs including those in East Asia, and on various challenges facing the international community. As this year marks the “Japan-SICA (Central American Integration System) Friendship Year, I would also like to take this opportunity to deepen our discussions on strengthening relations between Japan and the Central American region. I look forward to having meaningful discussions with President Mulino.
Thank you very much. Gracias.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-Panama Summit Meeting (PM in Action)
Japan-Panama Summit Meeting and Working Lunch (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister