Video Message by Prime Minister Ishiba for the 77th Japan-America Student Conference (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message by Prime Minister Ishiba for the 77th Japan-America Student Conference
August 1, 2025
Tweet
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
Dear student delegates from both Japan and the United States, I am Ishiba Shigeru, Prime Minister of Japan.
I would like to express my sincere congratulations on the occasion of the 77th Japan-America Student Conference. I am very pleased that the Conference, with a history of more than 90 years, is held again this year, welcoming U.S. students to Japan.
The Japan-U.S. Alliance is the cornerstone of the security and prosperity of our countries. It also serves as the foundation of peace and stability not only in the Indo-Pacific region, but also in the world.
This year’s Japan-U.S. Student Conference features the theme of “Upholding Dignity: Bilateral harmony through respectful dialogue.” It sounds kind of difficult.
As you are all aware, Japan and the United States recently reached a new deal on the U.S. tariff measures. During the process, sincere and earnest consultations were held with all our might at various levels between Japan and the United States, including two in-person meetings between President Trump and myself. With both sides pursuing their respective national interests. As a result, we reached the deal that contributes to the national interests of both countries. Through this process, I have reaffirmed the significance of respectful dialogue.
I hope that the Conference will provide a great opportunity for all the participants to engage in lively discussions and meaningful exchanges of views on various aspects of politics, economy, culture and society, as we are experiencing dynamic changes within international relations. I hope everyone will engage in a discussion as if you were a president, or prime minister.
I understand that, as part of this program, you will visit Osaka, Kumamoto and Tokyo, in addition to Kyoto. These cities are promoting development initiatives that make the most of their own traditions and regional characteristics.
In particular, your visit to Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai will be an opportunity for you to learn about Japan today and the future world, as well as experience cutting edge initiatives. I hope that you will foster mutual friendship among the participants while enjoying the history and charm of each city.
The Expo is being held in Osaka, Japan for the first time in 55 years. When the Osaka Expo was held in 1970, Japan’s Showa Era 45, I was in the second grade of junior high school. I visited the Expo three times. The American pavilion exhibited a moon rock. After standing in line for three hours, I saw it for only one minute. I remember thinking, “Wow, this is a moon rock.”
This year, the U.S. is also exhibiting a moon rock. Fifty-five years have passed since then. Of course, you weren’t born then, but I hope you’ll join us to discuss how Japan and the United States can cooperate in the 21st century and play a role in the world.
You are the ones who will play leading roles in the future of Japan and the U.S. It is my sincere hope that this conference will be productive and fruitful and that the relationship you develop here in Japan will serve as a bridge for the future of our two countries.
I wish you all the best. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister