Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force Yokosuka Base (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force Yokosuka Base
August 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Today, I am greatly encouraged as Prime Minister to see your high morale as Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force personnel here at this Yokosuka base.
As long as 23 years ago, in 2002, I visited Yokosuka as Director-General of the then-Defense Agency and inspected the submarine JS Oyashio. Then, 12 years ago, in 2013, I attended the naming and launching ceremony in Yokohama for JS Izumo, the lead ship of the Izumo-class, to which this vessel belongs.
I am now in Yokosuka again as the Supreme Commander of the SDF, recognizing firsthand the current upgraded state of JS Kaga, which has gone through a modification work, while also hearing the voices of its crew. I am deeply grateful to all the personnel involved for today’s occasion.
Currently, Japan faces the most severe and complex security environment since the end of World War II. China is intensifying its attempts to unilaterally change the status quo by force in the East and South China Seas and expanding and increasing its military activities in areas surrounding Japan. In June this year, two Chinese aircraft carriers operated simultaneously in waters near Japan in the Pacific Ocean. North Korea continues to pursue improvements in its nuclear and missile capabilities, while Russia maintains its aggression against Ukraine. Alarmingly, North Korea is even dispatching soldiers to Russia in exchange for the transfer of nuclear and missile-related technology from Russia. China is strengthening its military ties with Russia. In the Middle East, a major source of our energy supply for Japan, tensions between Israel and Iran continue, and, as you know, Iran is providing drones to Russia.
In this way, the security environments of Europe, the Middle East and East Asia are closely interconnected. We live in a world where events in Europe and the Middle East can affect our own safety and livelihood. Our role is to fully defend Japan’s independence and peace, and to fulfill this role, we must continue our efforts more boldly to enhance deterrence.
We have enhanced the capabilities of this vessel as part of efforts to improve deterrence. Going forward, it is set to acquire the operational capability to operate F-35B fighter jets.  This will contribute to strengthening Japan’s air and maritime defense posture, particularly on the Pacific side, where we have a limited number of airports despite its vast airspace.
Japan has been working to fundamentally strengthen its defense capabilities based on the National Security Strategy and other documents, and this initiative must continue. In addition, it is also necessary for Japan to constantly review and advance its initiatives to proactively strengthen deterrence and response capabilities in light of the surrounding security environment.
What should we do to defend Japan’s independence, the lives and property of the people, and their peaceful livelihood? What should the JMSDF and Japan do? Together with you, we must seek answers to these questions as part of our political responsibility.
In operating this vessel, it is imperative to fundamentally strengthen joint operational capabilities. It will be the first time that Air Self-Defense Force fighter jets are operated from a Maritime Self-Defense Force destroyer. Another important role is to use this vessel’s excellent transport functions to provide various forms of support to Japan Ground Self-Defense Force units, such as the Amphibious Rapid Deployment Brigade and V-22 Ospreys, in the defense of remote islands.
This is something that we have discussed since a long time ago, when I succeeded Mr. Nakatani as Director-General of the Defense Agency: If operations are integrated, then the development of defense capabilities must also be integrated. I understand that there will be various difficulties as we work to strengthen integrated operations of this vessel. What is needed to overcome these challenges? The requests of the personnel on the ground carrying out their duties will serve as the driving force for strengthening integrated operations, and efforts based on those requests will lead to the improvement of Japan’s deterrence. I ask each and every one of you to consider what is necessary to accomplish your mission and act on it in a systematic manner.
This applies to equipment, operations and laws as well: You have to ask if you have really done sufficiently or if there is any need for a complete overhaul for improvement. I have studied security and defense issues to a certain extent, but I have never risked my life aboard a ship, a plane or a vehicle. You, as SDF personnel, are the ones who know best what it is all about. It is your right and duty to express your opinions on how operations should be conducted, how laws should be enacted and what equipment is needed. The Government will make decisions based on our responsibility to the public. It is for this reason that I sincerely wish for all of you to continue to improve your expertise and skills for the improvement of our defense capabilities.
A short while ago, I visited HMS Prince of Wales. This marks the second port call by the UK Carrier Strike Group and demonstrates the UK’s commitment to contributing to regional peace and stability, while also being instrumental in further strengthening Japan’s security and Japan-UK security and defense cooperation.
Given the close links between the security environments of Europe and East Asia, seeking strengthened cooperation between Japan and like-minded nations, including those in Europe, is undoubtedly crucial. This vessel has also contributed significantly to strengthening cooperation with various nations. In February, it participated in a joint exercise with the U.S. and French navies, involving their aircraft carriers. This month, it participated in a joint exercise with the UK Royal Navy and Air Force, involving HMS Prince of Wales, as well as navies from the U.S., Australia, Spain and Norway, along with the U.S. Marine Corps.
In both East Asia and Europe, attempts are being made to unilaterally change the status quo by force, and Japan, together with its allies and like-minded nations, is up against this reality. In this context, it is vital for Japan and other nations to demonstrate a strong will and capability in coordination, as this greatly helps enhance deterrence. I sincerely hope that we will fully leverage the features of this vessel to make these collaborations effective.
The SDF must be accorded the highest honor. They are an organization dedicated to defend the independence of our nation. As such, it deserves the highest honor. At the same time, the SDF must be required to uphold the highest discipline commensurate with this highest honor. No matter how excellent this vessel and the SDF’s other equipment might be, it is useless without the personnel to operate it.
Japan’s deterrence is enhanced as you fully devote yourselves to your duties as JMSDF personnel on the front lines of national defense, thereby ensuring to defend the lives and peaceful livelihood of the people, as well as Japan’s independence. It is quite natural for the Government and the state to assume the responsibility to ensure a system that allows you to dedicate yourselves to such a crucial mission with pride and honor.
With this philosophy in mind, the entire Government has been working to improve the living and working conditions and treatment of SDF personnel. Under the leadership of Minister of Defense Nakatani, unprecedented policies have been put into reality, including the creation of over 30 new allowance systems and increases in amounts of such benefits. Effects are starting to emerge in the area of securing human resources.
However, this initiative has just begun. When I visited Maizuru in May this year, I held a roundtable discussion with personnel on the ground and listened to their opinions on improving their treatment. I spoke with individual SDF members from all ranks, from officers to enlisted members, both men and women, and from young people in their twenties to veterans in their fifties. This allowed me to receive various requests. I told them that I would certainly realize the requests that can be fulfilled and would properly explain why others were not realized. I will continue to listen to the voices of the SDF personnel and study and implement further measures.
This year marks the 80th anniversary since the end of World War II. The SDF have always been present alongside Japan’s path as a peaceful nation throughout the post-war period. The SDF personnel have played the central roles in this, with their strength serving as the core of deterrence. We will never for a moment forget the weight of the words of the oath of service taken by all SDF personnel: “I will meet the expectations of the Japanese people by striving to complete duties which may involve risking my own life when facing challenges.” At the same time, Japan, as a state, will ensure that you, who faithfully carry out your duties with the oath of service in your hearts, receive appropriate recognition.
I ask all of you to be aware of your noble mission to live up to the trust of the people and engage in the defense of our nation, serving as the last resort for the people, while also making tireless efforts. At the same time, I am determined to stand at the forefront and fully defend Japan’s independence and its people.
The first time I boarded a destroyer was in 1968, the 43rd year of the Showa era, when I was a sixth-grader in Tottori. I boarded a ship called DD-113. Most people probably don't know it, but it was the lead ship of the Kumo-class. I joined an experience cruise from Sakaiminato to Maizuru, and that night I stayed at Maizuru Hospital. I will never forget the deep impression it left on me. It was an excellent ship. JS Takatsuki and JS Amatsukaze were also fine vessels. This might make younger personnel wonder: “What kind of ship are you talking about?”
After all, Japan is a maritime nation. Its independence and peace will be maintained on the basis of a stronger JMSDF and your efforts. We in government will also make all possible efforts.
I conclude my address by sincerely praying that the JMSDF and this JS Kaga may be even stronger through your efforts, and that Japan may forever remain a peaceful and independent nation. Thank you for your service.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister