Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Courtesy Call by Secretary of the Treasury Bessent and Other Members of the U.S. Presidential Delegation and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Courtesy Call by Secretary of the Treasury Bessent and Other Members of the U.S. Presidential Delegation and Other Matters
July 18, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On what Prime Minister Ishiba conveyed to U.S. Secretary of the Treasury Bessent, the cabinet member in charge of Japan-U.S. tariff negotiations, on behalf of the Government of Japan during the meeting that just concluded; on whether or not Secretary Bessent provided an explanation of the 25 percent tariff scheduled to be imposed on August 1; and on Prime Minister Ishiba's intention to speak with President Trump directly, over the telephone for example, in the lead-up to that date)
I just received a courtesy call from the U.S. Presidential Delegation on Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan, which Secretary Bessent is heading. I welcomed the delegation's participation in the Expo and also expressed my sincere gratitude to President Trump for sending such a distinguished delegation to this important event. At the Expo, the United States' National Day is scheduled for tomorrow. I told the delegation I look forward to U.S. National Day serving as an opportunity to showcase the strong Japan-U.S. Alliance and Japan-U.S. friendship.
I stated that the security of Ukraine, the Middle East, and Asia is interconnected, and that Japan seeks to further strengthen cooperation with the United States. I also stressed that Japan is making proactive efforts to secure its own peace and security and that we will continue to strengthen our defense capabilities. I next underscored that Japan and the United States have many areas in the field of economic security in which we should enhance our cooperation. I then conveyed my hopes for the U.S. side and Minister Akazawa to vigorously continue their consultations on the U.S. tariff measures towards realizing a mutually beneficial agreement.
As for being in contact with President Trump, including a potential meeting or other avenues, nothing has been decided as of this point. However, as I shoulder the responsibility of defending our national interests, I naturally assume that there will be opportunities to speak with President Trump directly. That is something I intend to make a decision on while carefully monitoring how our negotiations unfold.
(On whether or not the U.S. side provided a concrete explanation of the tariff rate being set at 25 percent)
We did not discuss anything like that in any detail.
(On whether or not Secretary Bessent conveyed anything to Prime Minister Ishiba, and on whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba received an official letter from President Trump during the delegation's visit)
I did not receive an official letter or any other such communication from the President. Secretary Bessent stated that a beneficial agreement will most certainly be reached.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister