Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding the G7 Leaders' Video Conference and the International Summit on the Support of Ukraine (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding the G7 Leaders' Video Conference and the International Summit on the Support of Ukraine
February 24, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(In the context of three years now having passed since the start of the military invasion of Ukraine by Russia, on what kind of discussions were held during the G7 meeting concerning responses to the situation in Ukraine and what kind of statement Prime Minister Ishiba made at the G7 meeting, and on the posture the Government of Japan will take in responding to the Ukraine situation, amid concerns over G7 unity regarding how to respond regarding Ukraine in the wake of criticism leveled the other day by U.S. President Trump that President Zelenskyy of Ukraine is a "dictator without elections")
Today marks the third anniversary [of the launch of Russia's full-scale aggression against Ukraine]. I once again condemn the fact that Russia's aggression and attacks against Ukraine are still taking place. At the same time, I wish to express my wholehearted respect for the courage shown by Ukraine as it continues to fight against Russia even now. Today, until just a little while ago, I participated online in both the International Summit on the Support of Ukraine and then the G7 leaders’ video conference.
During the G7 meeting, President Zelenskyy first delivered a statement, after which each of the G7 nations spoke. I made four points during my remarks. The first was that I have great hopes that the various diplomatic efforts now being made by the United States and others bear fruit and bring a resolution to the situation. The second point I made was that as this peace is realized -- whether it be peace, or a situation without war, or a state of having no combat taking place -- we must proceed carefully so that the wrong lessons are not drawn -- so that no one learns the wrong lesson that, for example, changing the status quo by force is acceptable. My third point was that the security of Europe and the Indo-Pacific are inseparable. And, insofar as North Korean troops are currently engaging in combat against Ukraine, I also stated for this third point that Japan strongly condemns military cooperation between Russia and North Korea. As my fourth point, I underscored that ongoing G7 unity will be necessary to bring about a just and lasting peace in Ukraine and stated that Japan will continue its support for Ukraine as well as its sanctions against Russia. I will refrain from discussing the particulars of the other matters discussed during the meeting.
(On whether or not the G7 joint statement was successfully compiled during the G7 leaders' conference, on what points from the statement made by Japan were incorporated in the G7 joint statement, and on what President Zelenskyy said during his statement)
As for the G7 joint statement, it is still being formulated. I don't feel there was any substantial schism regarding the overall substance of statements made by the leaders, but as for the content of the joint statement, there has been some coordination taking place at the working level and that remains ongoing. With regard to the remarks made by President Zelenskyy, I remember him saying that he continued to hold strong expectations for support from the G7 towards Ukraine.
(On how the diplomatic efforts now being made by the United States were evaluated during the G7 leaders' conference)
It is not the case that, as the G7, the other six G7 countries came together to express a unanimous view regarding the efforts being made by the United States. That said, I do believe quite a number of statements praised the fact that the United States -- that President Trump -- has been holding, or is willing to hold, various discussions with President Putin in an aspiration towards peace.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister