Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Summit Telephone Talk with U.S. President Trump (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Summit Telephone Talk with U.S. President Trump
June 13, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
Just now, for approximately 20 minutes, I held a summit telephone talk with President Trump of the United States of America. I once again conveyed Japan's position regarding U.S. tariff measures, taking into account the outcomes thus far of the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures, among other considerations. We had a candid and meaningful exchange this time as well. President Trump and I agreed to accelerate our consultation process, with a view to realizing an agreement that will benefit both Japan and the United States. Mr. Akazawa, our Minister in charge of this matter, is en route to Washington, D.C. at this very moment and will be arriving shortly.
We also exchanged views on Israel's recent attacks on Iran and responses to the situation. Sharing the recognition that peace and stability in the Middle East are extremely important, President Trump and I agreed to stay in close communication going forward.
With the G7 Summit taking place next week, we confirmed that we will hold a meeting on that occasion and further deepen our discussions on Japan-U.S. cooperation. That's all from me.
(On whether or not the meeting on the sidelines of the G7 Summit will take place after Prime Minister Ishiba's arrival in Canada)
That is correct.
(On whether or not, in conveying Japan's position, Prime Minister Ishiba also reiterated a request for the elimination of the additional tariff measures)
That is correct. I once again made clear Japan's intention to contribute to reducing the United States' trade deficit.
(On whether or not the elimination of the tariffs is the only way forward towards reaching an agreement)
What do you mean by that?
(Or, for example, would a reduction [in the tariffs be a possibility].)
Our position of requesting the elimination of the tariffs has not changed in the least.
(On whether or not a specific date has been set for the bilateral meeting during the G7 Summit)
This will be coordinated by our respective officials from now. We have agreed to hold a meeting on the sidelines of the G7 Summit, as well as to have our officials work out the specific timing.
(On whether or not a potential visit by Prime Minister Ishiba to the United States arose as a topic in today's discussion)
No, we did not discuss that. Minister Akazawa is about to arrive in the United States and he will hold talks with [Treasury Secretary] Bessent, [Commerce Secretary] Lutnick, [Trade Representative] Greer, and other U.S. officials. As you may know, the United States is currently observing Army Day, which includes a parade, and the weekend is also approaching. Given these circumstances, we did not discuss me potentially visiting the U.S.
(On whether the proposal for today's telephone conversation came from the Japan side or the U.S. side)
It was the Japan side that proposed having a summit telephone talk.
(On what the content of the conversation was)
The purpose was to confirm that we will in fact hold a meeting while in Kananaskis. Prior to that, Minister Akazawa will be visiting the United States for the consultations, and President Trump and I will meet in Kananaskis taking into account the outcome of those discussions. I also initiated the call from my side because I wanted to wish President Trump a happy birthday, although it is a day early.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-U.S. Summit Telephone Talk (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister