Address by Prime Minister Ishiba for the Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 80th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister Ishiba for the Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 80th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa
June 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
As we conduct this Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 80th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa, I wish to express my heartfelt mourning for the souls of those who perished on the battlefields as well as those who died amid the ravages of war during the Battle of Okinawa.
During the war, Okinawa was the scene of a horrifying ground battle that engulfed local residents, claiming the precious lives of 200,000 people.
Even young students who should have been walking a path toward a future filled with hope, such as the Himeyuri Student Corps and the Iron and Blood Imperial Corps, were forced onto the battlefields, where they lost their lives. Countless fathers and mothers perished amid the ravages of war, praying for the safety of their children until their final moments. The land of Okinawa was reduced to ashes, and its natural beauty and rich culture were devastated without mercy.
We must never forget the deep regrets of all those who lost their lives in the war, whose names are engraved on the Cornerstone of Peace, nor the sorrow of those they left behind.
The peace and prosperity we now enjoy have been built upon the precious lives of the victims as well as Okinawa’s history of hardships, which defies description.
Now, 80 years since the Battle of Okinawa, we bow our heads in solemn remembrance, with this conviction deeply etched into our hearts.
During the Battle of Okinawa, one in every four residents of the prefecture lost their lives.
When I served as Director-General of the Defense Agency under the Koizumi Cabinet, I was responsible for developing Japan’s civil protection legislation, which I undertook guided by the strong conviction that civilians must never be involved in the horrors of war. What I had foremost in mind at the time was the tragic experience of the Battle of Okinawa.
It is a solemn responsibility of the nation to reflect on the deep wounds Okinawa sustained, squarely confront the folly and tragedy of war, and make every possible effort towards realizing a peaceful and prosperous future for Okinawa.
The concentration of U.S. military bases heavily impacts the people of Okinawa even now. I am firmly resolved to achieve tangible progress in reducing this burden.
In March of this year, a new health and medical care hub featuring advanced medical and research functions was established on the former site of the West Futenma Housing Area. This initiative, which contributes to the development and well-being of Okinawa, serves as a model case for the future utilization of returned land.
In May, a grand design for economic growth utilizing land to be returned in the future was formulated, primarily through the initiative of the local business community and other stakeholders.
The government will continue its efforts to consolidate, reorganize, and reduce the number of U.S. military facilities and areas in Japan, while also promoting the effective utilization of returned military land in close cooperation with the people of Okinawa.
Okinawa is blessed with natural beauty that captivates all who visit as well as a geographical advantage as the gateway to Asia and a rich tapestry of international culture and tradition, rooted in its identity as the land of Bankoku Shinryo, a bridge between nations.
The Government will leverage these strengths and unique characteristics to promote Okinawa’s development as a national strategy, with a view to realizing the future envisioned by the people of Okinawa themselves. This includes enhancing the value of its tourism industry and establishing hubs for the advanced medical and aerospace sectors through the use of cutting-edge technologies.
The Government will also work steadily to tackle challenges that remain, including recovering the remains of the war dead and disposing of unexploded ordnance.
Japan has consistently followed the path of a peace-loving nation throughout its post-war history. We must never again repeat the horrors of war. No matter how many years pass, we will uphold this unwavering pledge across generations and remain firmly committed to building a world where all people can live in a peaceful and spiritually rich manner.
I will conclude my address by offering my sincere prayers that the souls here rest in peace and my heartfelt wishes for the peace of the bereaved families of the war dead.
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister of Japan
June 23, 2025
Related Link
Japanese
Memorial Ceremony to Commemorate the Fallen on the 80th Anniversary of the End of the Battle of Okinawa (PM in Action)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister