Video Message from Prime Minister Ishiba to the 22nd Annual Meeting of the Science and Technology in Society forum (STS forum) (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message from Prime Minister Ishiba to the 22nd Annual Meeting of the Science and Technology in Society forum (STS forum)
October 6, 2025
Tweet
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
Good morning, everyone. I am ISHIBA Shigeru, Prime Minister of Japan.
With the honor of their Majesties, the Emperor and Empress in attendance today, I would like to say a few words about the 22nd Annual Meeting of the Science and Technology in Society forum (STS forum).
The theme of the opening session of this forum is “Looking at the World in 2030 and Beyond―The Future of Science and Technology and Humankind.” While science and technology can be the “light” that brings hope, they also have the potential to be the “shadow,” which creates disparity and anxiety. In order to put the “light” of science and technology to use and prepare for the “shadow,” cooperation and responsibility of the international community are essential.
The STS forum is a venue that nurtures such a network of knowledge and trust. It is my sincere hope that your discussions and interactions will empower us to bring hope to the future society.
In August, Japan hosted the 9th Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD 9), which brought together representatives from 49 countries, including 33 African heads of state. At this important gathering, participants jointly adopted the Yokohama Declaration. The declaration highlights the critical role of international knowledge exchange, as well as the importance of science and technology diplomacy. In this context, Japan launched an initiative to develop 30,000 AI professionals over the next three years. To ensure shared prosperity across the globe, including Africa, it is essential that we harness the power of science and technology to co-create innovative solutions to common challenges.
With regard to AI, which is the focus of this forum, it is crucial to accelerate innovation while mitigating risks. Under the AI Act that was passed in the recent ordinary session of the Diet, Japan will realize its vision of becoming “the world’s most AI-friendly country” and make contributions to the world.
Furthermore, we will continuously promote Hiroshima AI Process, which was launched during G7 2023 under Japan’s presidency.
We will also continue to take leadership in international rulemaking to advance safe, secure, and trustworthy AI.
Currently, at Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan, various visions depicting a future society are being displayed, such as a beating heart created with iPS cells and a society in which humans and robots co-exist, under its theme of “Designing Future Society for Our Lives.”
It is my hope that the combination of the discussions at this STS forum and the experiences at the Expo will provide the opportunity for realizing the desired future society through science and technology.
Thank you for your kind attention.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister