Prime Minister Ishiba’s Address at the Meeting with People of Nikkei in Peru (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Address at the Meeting with People of Nikkei in Peru
November 17, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Buenos dias.
Good morning, everyone. I am ISHIBA Shigeru, the 103rd Prime Minister of Japan.
While I mentioned I am the “103rd” Prime Minister, it should not be interpreted as there having been 103 people serving as Prime Ministers. I am, in fact, the 65th (as the same individual can be appointed as Prime Minister multiple times), and have been serving as Prime Minister since October 1. I have been a Diet member for 38 years, making me the fifth or so longest-serving Diet member. My constituency is in Tottori Prefecture, the smallest prefecture in Japan.
This year marks the 125th anniversary of Japanese immigration to Peru. Taking the opportunity of this memorable occasion, I have arrived in Peru and am deeply honored to meet all of you in person like this.
Last year marked the 150th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Japan and Peru. Peru was the first Latin American country with which Japan established diplomatic ties. Similarly, for Peru, Japan was the first Asian country with which it established diplomatic relations. Peru is our oldest friend in Latin America. Japanese immigrants to Peru and their descendants, the Nikkei people, have overcome great difficulties and hardships, making significant contributions to Peruvian society as key members. The approximately 200,000 Nikkei people residing in the country have worked diligently, and we, as Japanese, are very proud of them. I have heard that the Japanese Peruvian Centennial Clinic has provided the largest number of hospital beds in Peru for patients suffering from COVID-19. Lending a helping hand to those in need is a wonderful tradition of those with Japanese heritage.
Eighty years ago, Japan entered the postwar era marked by immense difficulties. During that time, Nikkei people overseas offered significant support to our country through the Licensed Agencies for Relief in Asia (LARA), a private American organization that shipped relief goods to Japan. I believe that this spirit of mutual support remains alive today.
The world today is characterized by division and confrontation. A war is still underway in Ukraine and another in Gaza, forcing many people to lose their lives. There may be an increasing number of self-serving countries that prioritize their own interests.
This current visit to Peru coincides with a leaders’ meeting in Lima of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC, which promotes economic exchanges in the Asia-Pacific region. I also held separate meetings with President Biden of the United States, President Xi Jinping of China and President Yoon Suk Yeol of the ROK, among many other leaders. I believe we should focus on identifying areas where countries can cooperate, rather than emphasizing their differences.
For the past 125 years, you have served as a vital bridge connecting Japan and Peru, while also playing significant roles within Peruvian society. I believe you have worked hard to find ways to contribute throughout this 125-year history.
The Japanese Government will also be carrying out a series of exchange programs over the next three years, starting this year, involving approximately 1,000 Nikkei people in Latin America. You are all warmly invited to visit Japan. You may discover a Japan that is different from what you imagine. It is also possible that you preserve something that we Japanese are at risk of losing. Currently, there are about 50,000 Peruvians in Japan, primarily Nikkei people, many of whom have made significant contributions to Japanese society. If you come to Japan, you will notice that Japan’s population is declining at an alarming rate. It is projected that within 80 years, the population will be halved. We Japanese aspire to restore our confidence and pride once again.
I sincerely hope that you, who have overcome great hardships and built the prosperity we see today, will continue to succeed into the future, serving as a bridge between Japan and Peru and making significant contributions to both the world and Japan, your ancestral homeland. As I conclude my speech, allow me to say a few words about this excellent hall. I wish I could see all of your songs and dances. Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Tachibana is such a talented person that he can recite the entire Manyoshu, a truly great piece of Japanese literature. I can sing almost all of the hit songs by Japanese pop stars from decades ago, and I hope there will be another opportunity for that as well.
Thank you very much. I wish you continued success.
Related Link
Japanese
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Meeting with People of Nikkei in Peru (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister