Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Summit Telephone Talk with U.S. President Trump (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Summit Telephone Talk with U.S. President Trump
May 29, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
I apologize for holding this press conference so late at night.
Just now, I spoke with President Trump of the United States of America over the telephone for approximately 25 minutes. In today's summit telephone talk, which follows our telephone talk of May 23, President Trump and I had a constructive dialogue that will further advance Japan-U.S. cooperation in a wide range of fields, including foreign affairs and security as well as the economy.
Naturally, we also had an exchange of views on the Japan-U.S. Consultations on U.S. Tariff Measures. During that interchange, I conveyed Japan's views on the U.S. tariff measures. President Trump and I agreed to have our ministers in charge further deepen their discussions on the matter going forward.
I consider it extremely significant that so soon after our exchange last week, in an atmosphere that was open and at ease, we had a truly candid exchange of views that resulted in each of us further deepening our understanding of the other's stance. I intend to continue to work together with President Trump to further reinforce the Japan-U.S. alliance and our cooperative relationship, as well as to deepen our relations, through which will be able to play a greater role in fostering world peace, stability, and prosperity. 
I will end my statement here.
(On whether or not the topic of Nippon Steel's proposed acquisition of U.S. Steel was a topic of discussion during the summit telephone talk with President Trump, and on what kind of response the Japanese Government intends to seek from the U.S. government)
I won't comment on the specifics of what we discussed, as that falls under diplomatic exchange. The Japanese side has consistently advocated for "investment rather than tariffs" all along. By making investments in the U.S., we will generate employment in the United States while also leveraging Japan-U.S. cooperation to create better products. Japan's calls to make what can be called a "win-win" relationship have not changed in the slightest.
(On whether or not any progress regarding Japan-U.S. tariff negotiations resulted from today's telephone discussion; on whether or not there will be any changes to the position Japan has laid out thus far of urging the elimination of U.S. tariff measures; and on whether or not during today's discussion any mention was made of, for example, the timing of Prime Minister Ishiba potentially visiting the United States, such as before the G7 summit meeting)
I need to reiterate that I won't comment here on the diplomacy-related exchanges we had. That said, I myself came away from our discussion with a keen sense that each of us further deepened our understanding of the other's position. There has been no change whatsoever in Japan's stance on the issues.
I am looking forward to having a face-to-face meeting with President Trump on the sidelines of the G7 summit to be held in Kananaskis. Before the summit, there is also the possibility that, should the need arise, I myself might head to the U.S. to meet with President Trump, but as of right now, we have not discussed that course of action at all.
(On whether the proposal for today's telephone conversation came from the Japan side or the U.S. side)
It was the Japan side that proposed having a summit telephone talk.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-U.S. Summit Telephone Talk (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister