Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan
October 13, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On how Prime Minister Ishiba views the significance and achievements of Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan that has ended after gathering over 20 million people during the six-month period; and on how he believes the Government should assess the achievements of the Expo and pass on its legacy to future generations based on his stated desire to do so, including how discussions among experts should be conducted?)
The Expo has come to a close today. From the moment of the successful bid as long as seven years ago, and throughout the 184 days since the opening on April 13, a large number of people have worked in unity. Staff and the entire Government—including the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Minister in charge (of the Expo) who are here today—have devoted themselves wholeheartedly to this event. As it was the first time in 55 years, there were some negative voices saying things like, “Won’t it be impossible this time?” or “Will people actually come?” or “Won’t it end up in the red?” But we successfully overcame those doubts, and I would dare to say it has become a huge success.
“Design Future Society for Our Lives”(which was the theme of the Osaka-Kansai Expo) may be somewhat difficult to understand, in comparison to “Progress and Harmony for Mankind” for the Japan World Exposition, Osaka, 1970. I believe, however, this Expo has become an opportunity for Japanese people and people from around the world to ponder how to define “life” and “future.” Together with both Ministers, I truly felt that a new Japan is emerging from this Yumeshima. While my Cabinet happens to be leading the Government now, I must acknowledge that former Prime Ministers Kishida and Suga and all successive Ministers in charge of the Expo, as well as the Ministers of Economy, Trade and Industry and for Foreign Affairs, have all worked extremely hard. There is nothing truly perfect in this world, but I believe that we have seen a genuinely good Expo. I am also grateful to media people for their cooperation. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister