Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Arévalo of Guatemala (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Arévalo of Guatemala
June 10, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
Good evening, everyone. Buenas noches. (Good evening.)
I am pleased to welcome President Arévalo and his spouse to Japan as they visit to commemorate Guatemala’s National Day at Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai, Japan.
Japan and Guatemala are important partners that share common values and principles, and we take pride in the 90 years of friendship between our two countries. As the international community approaches a historic turning point, it is more important than ever for Japan to work in partnership with like-minded countries such as Guatemala.
I am pleased that today we issued a joint statement and elevated our bilateral relations to a “Strategic Partnership.” We also reached an agreement on further strengthening our cooperation in working to realize a Free and Open Indo-Pacific, addressing regional issues including those in East Asia, and responding to various challenges in the international arena.
In the meeting we just concluded, we agreed to further advance our relationship across a wide range of areas, including enhanced cooperation as like-minded countries in the areas I just mentioned, economic ties such as investment by Japanese companies, which will also contribute to job creation, and support for social and economic development in impoverished areas as well as assistance for returnee migrants.
At the working dinner later today, I would like to continue a candid exchange of views with President Arévalo, including on regional issues, and reaffirm with him that any unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion are unacceptable anywhere in the world.
With our countries acting as Strategic Partners, going forward, I intend to work hand in hand with President Arévalo to further deepen our bilateral relationship across a wide range of areas, while also working in closer cooperation and partnership in the international community.
Gracias. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-Guatemala Summit Meeting (PM in Action)
Japan-Guatemala Summit Meeting and Working Dinner (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister