Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding his Attendance at the Upcoming APEC Leaders' Meeting and G20 Summit Meeting (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding his Attendance at the Upcoming APEC Leaders' Meeting and G20 Summit Meeting
November 14, 2024
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On what Prime Minister Ishiba intends to convey at the APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation) Leaders' Meeting and G20 (Summit on Financial Markets and the World Economy) Summit Meeting and what results he hopes to achieve; on the kind of talks he plans to hold with U.S. President Biden, Chinese President Xi Jinping, and others; and on the status regarding coordinating a meeting with U.S. President-elect Trump and the kind of meeting Prime Minister Ishiba hopes to hold with him)
From now, I will set off on a visit to Peru and Brazil in order to attend the APEC meeting and then the G20 meeting. At APEC, where the theme is the three elements of empowerment, inclusion, and growth, I intend to discuss what Japan can do regarding these three issues to foster economic growth in the Asia-Pacific region.
Also, as for the G20, I intend to lead the discussions regarding how advanced nations and developing nations can mutually share responsibilities and the ways in which we should build cooperative relationships.
Moreover, as for meeting with President Biden, former Prime Minister Kishida laid out a clear path forward for the trilateral cooperative structure among Japan, the U.S., and the Republic of Korea (ROK) both in his interactions with ROK President Yoon and in the trilateral summit meetings held with President Biden. I plan to confirm that and then discuss further developing that course forward. With both President Biden and President Yoon, I expect there will be opportunities to speak with them individually and also have meetings, and I will engage in discussions with them from that standpoint. We need to make our relationship even more solid.
A meeting with President Xi Jinping of China is still being coordinated. Various bilateral issues exist, and at the same time there are challenges for which both our countries must share common aims. I plan to engage in a frank exchange of views with President Xi regarding such matters.
As for meeting with President-elect Trump, nothing concrete has been decided yet. Accordingly, I am not in a position to tell you in concrete terms what the topics for such a meeting would be. That is where we now stand.
(On how Prime Minister Ishiba intends to address domestic economic measures after completing this overseas trip)
I have heard reports that today the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and Komeito took all responsibility for this area. I have given instructions to advance various discussions from now also with legislators from political parties that will participate in them, of course taking the LDP-Komeito coalition as the base, and to deepen our discussions further regarding economic growth and economic development to arrive at a concrete plan.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister