Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures and Other Matters
July 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Ishiba's reaction to President Trump's post on social media that an agreement was reached on a rate of 15 percent in tariff negotiations with Japan; on what tariff rate was agreed for automobiles; and on whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba will visit the United States or speak with President Trump by telephone in the near future, in light of Mr. Ishiba having long said that ultimately, an agreement will be reached by consultations between the leaders themselves)
I'll answer your final question first. If necessary, we will have a meeting over the telephone or meet face to face.
I have received an initial report from Minister Akazawa. I was also contacted by Minister Akazawa before his meetings with the President and with Treasury Secretary [Bessent] and Commerce Secretary [Lutnick]. I gave Minister Akazawa necessary instructions in advance, so there are no discrepancies whatsoever between Minister Akazawa and me on policy matters.
I will also now receive a report on the specifics of the agreement, and I will examine the details thoroughly. In any case, these negotiations have been underway since February and put our national interests on the line with regard to automobiles and other products as well. Both sides made all-out efforts on these negotiations right up to the last minute, with our national interests at stake. This agreement is the culmination of those efforts.
We will steadfastly safeguard Japan's national interests -- that is our commitment as the Government. Japan and the U.S. will also join forces to create employment and produce high-quality goods. Accordingly, I believe this agreement will also contribute to us carrying out various roles in the international community in the future.
(On whether or not a telephone meeting or visit to the United States will take place in July, in light of Prime Minister Ishiba's response just now, saying these may happen "if necessary")
It depends entirely on whether such a need arises. What I said was that from now, I will have Minister Akazawa provide me with a report of what has transpired, and then, after carefully examining the specifics of the agreement, I will consider arranging a meeting, should there be a need for one.
(On the potential impacts upon Prime Minister Ishiba's decision-making regarding his own future in office, if an agreement has indeed been reached)
We are engaged in negotiations that have our national interests on the line. And because these are negotiations, I must be cautious in discussing the matter.
My decision on my own political future will be informed by the outcome of these negotiations, but I am not in a position to discuss that without first thoroughly examining the specifics of the agreement reached through these negotiations.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister