Contributed Article “Strengthening Japan-Malaysia Ties: A New Chapter In Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Malaysian National News Agency Bernama (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Contributed Article “Strengthening Japan-Malaysia Ties: A New Chapter In Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Malaysian National News Agency Bernama
January 9, 2025
Tweet
Everyone in Malaysia, Selamat Tahun Baru.
I am visiting Malaysia for my first bilateral overseas visit since taking office as Japan’s Prime Minister last October. It is a great honour to visit Malaysia, as it assumes an important responsibility as the Chair of ASEAN this year.
Both Malaysia and Japan are trading countries and maritime nations sharing fundamental principles and common values. We elevated our bilateral relationship to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” in December 2023, now, establishing robust cooperation in a wide range of areas, including security, green transformation (GX), and collaboration in the international arena. Amid an increasingly unpredictable international landscape marked by growing confrontations and divisions, it is critically important for Japan and Malaysia, both committed to upholding the rule of law, to collaborate toward realising a free and open Indo-Pacific. Such cooperation is essential for the peace and prosperity of both nations and the broader region. With this understanding, I intend to update our cooperative relationship as “Comprehensive Strategic Partners” and build a more multi-layered relationship through my meeting with Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim.
Japan-Malaysia relations are founded on people-to-people exchanges. Ever since Malaysia initiated the Look East Policy in 1982, approximately 28,000 Malaysians have studied in Japan. In addition, the two countries are collaborating through the Malaysia-Japan International Institute of Technology (MJIIT) and the branch campus of the University of Tsukuba. I expect that these institutions will produce highly skilled talent who will shape the bilateral relationship in the future. Cultural and economic exchanges are equally important along with education. This April, the Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan will be held and Malaysia will exhibit a pavilion under the theme of “Weaving a Future in Harmony.” I hope many people from Malaysia will come to Japan, get a glimpse of the future at the Expo, and promote business matching.
In the economic field, Japan has long been one of Malaysia’s key investment and trade partners, and both countries have achieved growth. Today, LNG and semiconductors of Malaysia becomes indispensable to daily life in Japan. I will never forget how, in the immediate aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, Petronas promptly supplied LNG to the disaster area at a time when Japan's LNG supply and demand were tight. The principles of sustainability and innovation in Malaysia's “Madani” policy are shared by Japan and Malaysia. During this visit, I intend to confirm progress of Japan-Malaysia economic relations, taking into account new areas of cooperation including enhancing supply chains resilience and rare earths. Decarbonisation and energy transition are major challenges in Southeast Asia, where economic growth has been strong. Together with Malaysia, which aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, we will work to simultaneously achieve decarbonization, economic growth, and energy security through the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) initiative. Additionally, Japan aims to expedite discussions and sign a Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) document with Malaysia at the earliest opportunity. JCM will contribute to emissions reductions in both countries through the use of our leading decarbonising technologies and the creation of carbon credits. Furthermore, I have heard that floods have become a major issue in Malaysia in recent years. With Prime Minister Datuk Seri Anwar Ibrahim, I intend to discuss how Japan can offer its expertise in flood control and contribute in the area of disaster risk reduction.
Across the region and the globe, the security environment has become ever more severe. Looking at the regional and international situation, the security environment is becoming increasingly severe, with recent events such as Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the situation in the Middle East. Any attempt to unilaterally change the status quo by force or coercion is unacceptable anywhere in the world. Japan is working to lead the world toward cooperation rather than division or confrontation. Strengthening maritime security and safety cooperation with Malaysia, which is located in a nexus in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, will contribute to the realization of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP). From this perspective, Japan has been and will continue enhancing collaboration with Malaysia through our Official Security Assistance (OSA), Official Development Assistance (ODA), and activities of the Japan Self-Defence Forces and the Japan Coast Guard. Moreover, we will promote cooperation in the field of cybersecurity, leveraging Japan’s advanced technology.
Japan makes commitment to supporting Malaysia's leadership as the ASEAN Chair in addressing various issues in the international and regional community. In particular, Japan is gravely concerned about the ongoing critical humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip,and has provided humanitarian assistance totaling approximately 230 million dollars to the Palestinian people since October 7, 2023. In addition, Japan has been supporting agricultural reconstruction in Palestine together with Malaysia, which has expertise in tropical agriculture. Japan launched the Conference on cooperation among East Asia Cooperation for Palestinian Development (CEAPAD) in 2013 as a unique initiative to support Palestine, and we hope to make the most of this framework together with Malaysia to contribute to the stabilisation of the situation in the Middle East.
My diplomacy work in 2025 formally kicks off here in Malaysia. I am sure that many people from Japan will continue to visit this country, attracted by Malaysia's economic and cultural appeal. I am confident that Japan-Malaysia relations will continue to develop through such diverse exchanges.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister