Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Meeting of Ruling and Opposition Party Leaders (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Meeting of Ruling and Opposition Party Leaders
April 4, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On what was discussed during the meeting of ruling and opposition party leaders with regard to how to respond to the reciprocal tariffs announced by U.S. President Trump; on the kinds of responses the Government intends to take in the future, in light of the outcome of this party leaders' meeting; and on the significance of this party leaders' meeting and on whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba intends to continue to convene this meeting on a regular basis)
Just now, at the meeting of ruling and opposition party leaders, Komeito Chief Representative Saito and I had discussions with Constitutional Democratic Party of Japan President Noda, Japan Innovation Party Co-Leader Maehara, Democratic Party for the People Leader Tamaki, Japanese Communist Party Chairperson Tamura, and Reiwa Shinsengumi Leader Yamamoto. Using a briefing document, I provided the other party leaders with an overview of the Government's policy for response measures for the immediate future.
Our policy received general approval. The party representatives voiced a number of opinions. I think they have held various press conferences mentioning those, but first and foremost, they said they wanted the Government to undertake responses acting as a united front.
Now, if any cabinet members, including myself, were to visit the United States, that would require the Diet to take a necessary response, namely granting permission for the trip. The other party leaders expressed their intention to give such a situation positive consideration. In any event, among the comments were some urging me to talk to President Trump at the earliest possible time, whether it be speaking on the telephone or having talks in person. Moreover, the other party leaders underscored that they want my administration to take all possible domestic response measures, and that they want us to ensure a system is firmly in place enabling price increases to be passed through to product prices, so that subcontractors, and subcontractors working under those subcontractors, are not adversely affected. These are just a few of the various points that were raised.
In response I said that I intend to address this matter earnestly, and that I plan to establish a Comprehensive Response Headquarters at the earliest possible time, with relevant ministers, or perhaps the entirety of my Cabinet, participating. Leaving aside the matter of whether or not these meetings would be at regular intervals, in the future, I do indeed intend to arrange for occasions of this type where I can hear the views of the opposition party leaders. I truly appreciate the cooperation and consideration the opposition party leaders and representatives have shown in these circumstances, and I plan to have all of Japan coming together as one to address this situation, which requires judicious handling.
(On Prime Minister Ishiba's intention to have a telephone talk with President Trump in the near future, in light of comments made by party representatives who participated in the party leaders' meeting indicating that Mr. Ishiba stated such a meeting was "being coordinated"; and on what Prime Minister Ishiba's actual remarks during the party leaders' meeting were with regard to such a meeting with President Trump)
It goes without saying that it would be best for me to actually visit the United States and talk directly with President Trump, but these is also the question of the Diet schedule. At the same time, I am sure the U.S. side has its own scheduling concerns, so first of all we are looking into discussing matters over the telephone. Regardless of whether I say we are "looking into" having such a call or that such a call is "being coordinated," I will take up the issue of what to say during such a call only after ensuring that it is properly coordinated. So, during the meeting with the other party leaders, I said that an opportunity to discuss matters with President Trump is either "now being coordinated" or "now being looked into."
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister