Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Earthquake Centered in the Adjacent Sea of Tokara Islands (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Earthquake Centered in the Adjacent Sea of Tokara Islands
July 3, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the latest status of damage from the earthquake with an intensity of 6 lower on the Japanese seismic scale of 0-7 that hit Toshima Village, Kagoshima Prefecture, at approximately 4:13 p.m. today, and the Government’s upcoming response policy given the frequent seismic activities in this region and possible future earthquakes.)
As you pointed out, at 4:13 p.m. an earthquake centered in the adjacent sea of Tokara Islands with an intensity of 6 lower in Toshima Village, Kagoshima Prefecture. After the earthquake occurred at 4:13 p.m., an emergency response office was set up at 4:17 p.m. at the Prime Minister’s Office. I was away from the office, but immediately issued three instructions to the disaster management office: firstly, to promptly assess the status of damage; secondly, for the Government and local municipalities to work together to implement emergency response measures without delay; and thirdly, to provide information to the public in an appropriate manner.
Regarding the status of damage, I have not been informed of any reports of human casualties so far. However, given the multiple earthquakes have occurred in the region, while not immediately visible, physical damage may have occurred. We are, of course, working to accurately assess such damage.
(On how Prime Minister Ishiba will deal with his scheduled campaign visits from tomorrow during the House of Councillors elections)
As I just mentioned, an emergency response office was set up just four minutes after the earthquake, and we are putting all our efforts into assessing the status of damage, implementing emergency responses and disseminating information. The Government is fully committed to handling earthquakes in this region, and ensures that instructions are issued promptly and accurately by me and the relevant ministers.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister