Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Lee of the Republic of Korea (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with President Lee of the Republic of Korea
August 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
It is a great pleasure and honor to welcome H.E. President LEE Jae Myung to Japan.
I understand that this is the first time since the normalization of diplomatic relations between Japan and the Republic of Korea that the ROK president has chosen Japan as his first bilateral visit destination after taking office. As this year marks the 60th anniversary of the normalization of Japan-ROK relations, I consider it highly significant to welcome President Lee on this historic occasion.
As the strategic environment surrounding both our countries grows increasingly severe, the importance of Japan-ROK relations, as well as trilateral cooperation among Japan, the ROK, and the United States, is rising. I find it very reassuring that President Lee and I have held this shared recognition since immediately after he took office.
I welcome the start of shuttle diplomacy between our two countries through this visit. A wide range of bilateral exchanges have been taking place steadily over time. Nevertheless, as neighboring countries, difficult issues do exist, and we will continue to pursue consistent policies.
President Lee and I agreed that, based on the foundation we have forged since the normalization of Japan-ROK relations in 1965, and under the favorable trajectory of our ties, we will develop our bilateral relations in a stable and significant manner. Today, President Lee and I held extremely meaningful exchanges of views on a broad range of topics.
In the fields of security and economic security, given the current strategic environment, we agreed to strengthen strategic communication between our two countries. From this perspective, in addition to the early convening of the Japan-ROK Vice-Ministers’ Strategic Dialogue, we will also continue to make use of the framework for dialogue between our defense authorities, while seeking to further strengthen Japan-ROK cooperation in the context of trilateral cooperation among Japan, the ROK, and the United States.
Our countries face a number of social and economic challenges in common, such as regional revitalization, a declining birthrate coupled with an aging population, rapid population decline, agriculture, and ensuring resilience against disasters. We agreed to establish a framework for consultation between our governments to share knowledge and expertise mutually and to work together with a view to finding solutions for these shared social and economic issues.
Although exchanges between the people of our countries are already active, we welcomed the decision to expand the working holiday program between our countries in response to the needs of the younger generation.
I believe that there is immense potential for cooperation between our two countries, and we agreed to further promote cooperation in areas such as hydrogen, ammonia, and AI as new ideas in the economic field.
In today’s summit meeting, with regard to regional affairs, we had a candid exchange of views and confirmed that we will continue to work in close cooperation. I conveyed to President Lee that Japan firmly opposes any unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion. We also discussed our policies towards North Korea, including its nuclear and missile issues, and reaffirmed that between Japan and the ROK as well as among Japan, the ROK, and the U.S., we will work closely together toward the complete denuclearization of North Korea. I wish to convey my appreciation to President Lee for expressing his support for the immediate resolution of the abductions issue.
Precisely because these are challenging times, I sincerely hope that, true to the slogan of the 60th anniversary of the normalization of Japan-ROK relations, "Joining hands for a better future," our two governments and the people of our two nations will join hands and move forward together towards a better future.
As for the outcome of today’s meeting with President Lee, we will issue a joint press release later.
This year we commemorate Japan-ROK relations turning 60, a highly significant milestone anniversary symbolizing renewal in both Japanese and Korean culture. I hope that, building on the momentum of today’s summit meeting, our relations will gain new strength and make further progress. That is all from me.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan - ROK Summit Meeting (PM in Action)
Japan - ROK Summit Meeting (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister