Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Japan-U.S. Iwo-To Reunion of Honor Ceremony (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Japan-U.S. Iwo-To Reunion of Honor Ceremony
March 29, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
On the occasion of the Japan-U.S. Iwo-To Reunion of Honor Ceremony, I offer my heartfelt condolences to the souls of those who lost their lives on this land.
Eighty years ago, this island of Iwo-To became the site of extremely fierce battles during the war, where far too many precious lives were lost.
Even now, when I think of each and every one of those who perished here—longing for their own country and worrying about their families and loved ones—I am overwhelmed with sorrow.
We must never forget that the peace and prosperity we enjoy today were built upon the invaluable sacrifices of those who fell in battle and the tireless efforts of those who have worked over the past eighty years since the end of the war.
Japan and the United States, which once fought against each other, have reconciled and deepened their relationship, now becoming trusted allies. I would like to express my sincere respect to the Iwo-To Association of Japan, the Iwo Jima Association of America and all those involved for their endeavors and efforts in continuing this Reunion of Honor for so many years.
Today, the Japan-U.S. Alliance is stronger than ever, serving as the cornerstone not only for the security of our two countries but also for peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region.
Taking this opportunity, here on the hallowed ground of Iwo-To, as we pay tribute to the spirits of those who fought for their country, I would like to renew Japan’s pledge for peace.
Then, with the preciousness of peace engraved in our hearts, we reiterate our determination to elevate the Japan-U.S. Alliance, which brings peace and prosperity to the world, to new heights.
Furthermore, to prevent the horrors of war from ever repeating, we must continue our efforts to pass on the painful experiences of the war across generations while humbly and sincerely facing history.
Also, I will never forget the many compatriots who have yet to be returned home. As a solemn duty of the country, we will steadfastly advance the projects to recover and repatriate the remains of the war dead and make our best efforts to bring them back to their home as soon as possible.
In closing, I offer my deepest prayers for the souls of all those who perished in battle, as well as for the peace and well-being of their bereaved families.
March 29, 2025
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister
Related Link
Japanese
Visit to Iwo-To (Prime Minister in Action)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister