Address by Prime Minister Ishiba at the Forum on the Economic Region of Indian Ocean-Africa "Towards African Prosperity through Japan-Indian Ocean Collaboration" (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister Ishiba at the Forum on the Economic Region of Indian Ocean-Africa "Towards African Prosperity through Japan-Indian Ocean Collaboration"
August 20, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Good morning, everyone. I am ISHIBA Shigeru, Prime Minister of Japan.
I wish to express my appreciation to Nikkei, Inc., the organizer of this event, as well as to everyone in attendance, for the opportunity to address you today. I wholeheartedly welcome the holding of this forum.
I have great expectations for this forum to serve as an invaluable opportunity to further strengthen the partnership Japan and Africa enjoy with each other, while also deepening cooperation between Japan and countries of the Indian Ocean region, including India and Middle Eastern countries, with the aim of fostering African development.
In the ancient past -- in primeval times -- India and Africa were geographically contiguous, as one part of the supercontinent Pangaea. Evidence of this remains etched even now in the strata of our planet. In the Middle Ages, merchants harnessed the monsoon winds to cross the Indian Ocean in pursuit of wealth from trade in textiles, spices, handicrafts, and other goods.
In the present day, this Indian Ocean-Africa economic region is once again gaining prominence on the world stage as a region boasting a young population and abundant energy resources that is achieving robust economic growth.
We will attain additional growth by further enhancing connectivity across this region and by promoting trade and investment. Japan intends to work together with the people of this region and also incorporate Africa's vitality and dynamism. Spurred by that objective, today I wish to take the opportunity of TICAD 9, the Ninth Tokyo International Conference on African Development, to propose the "Economic Region Initiative of Indian Ocean-Africa."
Japan has been working for quite some time for the realization of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific. Under the vision of this Free and Open Indo-Pacific, this initiative places focus on this Indian Ocean-Africa economic region and will aim to strengthen connectivity between the two regions while simultaneously creating a free and fair economic zone.
Investments by Japanese companies in infrastructure, resource and energy development, IT, and various other areas have played a significant role thus far in helping to resolve Africa's social issues and creating employment for young people.
Under this initiative I proposed just now, we will further strengthen the ties between Africa and Indian Ocean region nations, and, with a fresh sense of dynamism in the relationship between Japan and countries of the Indian Ocean region within this larger Indian Ocean-Africa region, we will support Africa's own efforts towards regional integration and industrial development. All of this will lead to further growth.
In Africa right now, a grand project is underway to create a free trade area that will span the entire continent. We will support this endeavor and hold discussions among African and Japanese representatives of industry, academia, and government on measures to bolster wide-ranging economic partnership between Japan and Africa.
We will promote Africa-led regional integration through the region-wide co-creation for common agenda initiative for the Nacala Corridor and other such projects and strengthen connectivity between Indian Ocean region countries and Africa.
We will press forward in developing industries within the region and creating employment opportunities based on the principles of co-creation and collaboration. Alongside this, we will promote enhanced cooperation with countries in the Indian Ocean region.
When doing so, under the Japan-Africa Co-Creation for Industry initiative, which facilitates cooperation between African startups and other enterprises and Japanese companies, we will support business collaboration, including with companies in Indian Ocean region countries. We will also promote integrated collaboration among companies from Japan, the Indo-Pacific region, and Africa, including through JICA, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, providing funding to an Indian investment fund that provides investment capital for African companies.
Japanese companies such as Daikin and Suzuki are already working together with Indian partners to export to Africa air conditioners and automobiles manufactured in India. These companies are also providing technical skills and knowhow to African youth and contributing to the autonomy of regional industries. Going forward, I intend to deepen my discussions with Prime Minister Modi of India with a view to making this initiative expand region-wide.
I am confident that the further development of this Indian Ocean-Africa economic region will with certainty make an enormous contribution to African development. Japan will work together with the people of this region to make that a reality.
It goes without saying that it is the representatives of African nations who have come together for TICAD who hold the keys for making all of this happen. Japan will reliably work on making this initiative a reality, working together with people in Africa and from around the region. I will conclude my remarks with my sincere wish for the success of this Forum. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
Related Link
Japanese
TICAD9 -Day 1- (1)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister