Address by Prime Minister Ishiba at the Eightieth National Memorial Ceremony for the War Dead (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister Ishiba at the Eightieth National Memorial Ceremony for the War Dead
August 15, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
In the gracious presence of Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress, and with the attendance of bereaved families of the war dead, distinguished representatives of all sectors of society, and many others, I hereby commence the annual National Memorial Ceremony for the War Dead.
More than three million of our compatriots lost their lives during the war.
Some fell on the battlefields worrying about the future of their homeland and wishing for the happiness of their families. Many fell victim to the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the air raids and naval bombardments on numerous cities, and the ground battles in Okinawa. Others, after the war ended, died in distant foreign lands. Here, before the souls of all who lost their lives, I offer my heartfelt prayers for their repose.
We will not forget, even for a moment, that the peace and prosperity that Japan enjoys today was built atop the precious lives and the history of suffering of the war dead. I express my deepest respect and gratitude once more.
Never will we forget the large number of war dead whose remains have still not been recovered. We will continue to spare no effort to return them to their hometowns at the earliest possible time.
Eighty years have now passed since the war ended. Today, generations with no firsthand experience of war make up the great majority. We must never again repeat the horrors of war. We must never again lose our way. We must now take deeply into our hearts once again our remorse and also the lessons learned from that war.
At the same time, over the past 80 years, Japan has consistently walked the path of a peace-loving nation and made all possible efforts for world peace and prosperity.
No matter how much time passes, we will hand down across generations the sorrowful memories of the war and our resolute pledge to renounce war, and we will remain steadfast in our actions to foster lasting peace. In this world in which tragic conflicts rage on, Japan will, by rejecting division and cultivating tolerance, pave the way to a better tomorrow for the sake of both present and future generations.
I will conclude my address by once again offering my heartfelt prayers for the repose of the souls of the war dead and for the happiness of the members of their bereaved families.
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister of Japan
August 15, 2025
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister