Contributed Article "How the Canada-Japan relationship can get even stronger" by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Canadian newspaper The Globe and Mail (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Contributed Article "How the Canada-Japan relationship can get even stronger" by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru to the Canadian newspaper The Globe and Mail
June 16, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
As I visit Kananaskis, Alberta, to attend the G7 Summit, I would like to express my renewed respect for Canada’s leadership as the holder of this year’s G7 presidency.
We are at a once-in-a-century historic turning point. Looking back over the past century-plus, we have faced various crises, including world wars that caused enormous damage, the subsequent reconstruction of the international order, the Great Depression, and the Spanish flu pandemic, which is believed to have claimed 50 to 100 million lives worldwide. Each time, the international community overcame these crises by sharing wisdom and acting together.
The G7 countries have always led such international efforts, guiding the world in a better direction. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the G7, and over the past 50 years, we have faced several crises, including the Gulf War, the Asian currency crisis, the 2008 financial crisis, the aggression against Ukraine, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Every time, the G7 has responded with unity.
At this historic moment, how should the G7 respond?
This summit will be a crucial milestone. To lead the international community from division to co-operation, we must maintain and strengthen an international order based on the rule of law, not power. We must deepen our cooperation with like-minded countries, including among the G7, as well as with developing and emerging countries, to make the international community more resilient against all risks. I hope the Kananaskis summit will provide opportunities for the leaders of the G7 and invited countries and organizations to have frank discussions to forge solutions for a better world and better future.
From this perspective, it is important to end Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, achieve an early and comprehensive ceasefire, and realize a just and lasting peace as soon as possible. Japan will continue to support Ukraine and maintain sanctions against Russia in co-operation with the G7. Furthermore, as seen in the engagement of North Korean troops in combat against Ukraine, the security of Europe and of the Indo-Pacific have become increasingly inseparable. Japan will continue promoting a Free and Open Indo-Pacific and contribute to the peace and stability of the international community.
Furthermore, amid growing uncertainty in the global economy, the G7 must show leadership and support economic activities. It is essential to maintain and strengthen a free and fair rules-based economic order, including the World Trade Organization and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership. In the face of growing protectionism and inwardlooking tendencies around the world, Japan will take the lead in maintaining and strengthening the multilateral free trading system, recognizing the WTO has provided an indispensable foundation for global economic growth from which we have benefited.
In addition, there are numerous challenges that the G7 must address together, including promoting co-operation on emerging technologies such as AI and quantum, economic security including the enhancement of supply chain resiliency for critical minerals, responding to wildfires raging across the world, including in Canada and the U.S., and addressing organized crime as well as foreign interference and oppression threatening local communities’ safety. Under Canada’s G7 Presidency, Japan is determined to actively contribute to addressing these issues.
Japan and Canada are important partners that share values and principles, and are co-operating on international issues in line with the Carney administration’s key policies. In particular, as neighbours across the Pacific, we are further strengthening our strategic partnership with the Japan-Canada Action Plan, announced in 2022, as the guiding compass for bilateral co-operation to realize a free and open Indo-Pacific region.
Earlier this year, we reached an agreement in principle on the Japan-Canada Information Security Agreement. We look forward to continuing to work with Canada, which has set a goal of diversifying its security, to further enhance our co-operation in the security and defence area.
Japan and Canada have also advanced co-operation in economic areas, utilizing technologies and knowledge in a mutually complementary manner. In line with Canada’s objective to become an “energy superpower,” LNG Canada, a joint venture in which Japanese companies are participating, is scheduled to begin supplying Canadian liquefied natural gas to Japan and the Indo-Pacific soon. Moreover, last month, the Ontario government approved the plan to begin construction of the first Small Modular Reactor with the involvement of a Japanese company, aiming to start operations by the end of 2030.
Since April, the Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan has been celebrating the theme “Designing Future Society for Our Lives.” The Canadian pavilion, with its concept of “Regeneration,” is attracting many visitors every day. I hope the Expo will further strengthen our people-to-people and economic exchanges at all levels. We also hope Canadian tourists will visit Japan’s beautiful regions outside Osaka.
Japan and Canada have been long-standing friends. The year 2028 marks the 100th anniversary of the establishment of our diplomatic relations. I sincerely hope our excellent relationship will keep developing further at various levels.
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister