Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding His Visit to the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force Yokosuka Base and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding His Visit to the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force Yokosuka Base and Other Matters
August 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the thoughts Prime Minister Ishiba had after his visits to JS Kaga and UK aircraft carrier HMS Prince of Wales today; on what he hopes to achieve in Japan’s upcoming efforts to strengthen defense cooperation with the UK and the security in the Indo-Pacific region; and on how he defines Japan’s roles and position regarding the “security assurances” for  Ukraine that the United States and European nations expect Japan to assist)
My visit to JS Kaga follows its refit work to acquire the operational capability to accommodate the Air Self-Defense Force’s F-35B fighter jet. One cannot fully understand how to utilize this fixed-wing F-35B capability or how it should be operated without actually boarding the ship. I boarded it to examine these points, and in fact, I heard various views from the captain and other crew members, which I believe will be very useful for the future. Under the leadership of Minister of Defense Nakatani, I hope that Japan’s operational capabilities, including those of JS Kaga, will be further enhanced and that deterrence in this region will be strengthened.
Regarding HMS Prince of Wales, Japan-UK defense cooperation has reached an unprecedented level—through personnel exchanges, joint exercises, cooperation in new fields such as space and cyberspace, and collaboration in defense equipment and technology. The port call of this Carrier Strike Group demonstrates the UK’s commitment to peace and stability in this region, and it impresses upon me that Japan-UK security and defense cooperation will further reinforce regional stability.
Discussions on “security assurances” for Ukraine are currently underway, and Japan will continue to take part in these international discussions while examining the appropriate measures and roles it should assume. As discussions among various nations are still in their early stages, we must carefully consider what role Japan should play and what actions we should take to achieve a ceasefire and lasting peace. Naturally, there are matters that we can address and those that we cannot, in light of legal perspectives and our capabilities. We will continue to make decisions in an autonomous manner, while closely monitoring how international trends evolve. That concludes my remarks.
Related Link
Japanese
Visit to the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force Yokosuka Base (PM in Action)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister