Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA regarding His Visit to the LIFELINK Suicide Prevention Support Center and the Japan Suicide Countermeasures Promotion Center (JSCP) (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA regarding His Visit to the LIFELINK Suicide Prevention Support Center and the Japan Suicide Countermeasures Promotion Center (JSCP)
January 21, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the thoughts of Prime Minister Ishiba after his visit to the LIFELINK Suicide Prevention Support Center and the Japan Suicide Countermeasures Promotion Center and what specific measures the Government intends to take)
Although overall suicides have decreased in number last year, the increase in suicides among children, particularly elementary and junior high school students, is a very alarming issue. While there are various underlying causes that need to be addressed and improved, these issues cannot be resolved overnight. What was particularly striking during today’s visit was the realization that many people who contemplate suicide do not actually want to die. They are desperately seeking someone who listen to them. I believe the key is to provide such opportunities. I was impressed by the potential of new technologies, such as generative AI, to create systems where people can be heard or to provide virtual safe havens. By combining these new technologies, we can effectively respond to the needs of those who are suffering. Furthermore, we can enhance support systems by providing each student with a personal device at school, enabling them to seek counseling from wherever they are. The Government, primarily the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, has a crucial role to play in saving lives. We have many areas to address in the future. We are committed to creating more opportunities like this to improve the situation, as even the loss of one life is a grave matter. We will continue our efforts for this goal. Thank you for your time today.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister