Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba on His Attendance at the 2025 Peace Memorial Ceremony in Nagasaki and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba on His Attendance at the 2025 Peace Memorial Ceremony in Nagasaki and Other Matters
August 9, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(MC)
We will now start the press conference by Prime Minister Ishiba. The press conference will proceed in a Q&A format, with one question each from the representative of the local press corps and the representative of the press corps accompanying the Prime Minister. Now, on behalf of the Nagasaki City Press Club, I would like to invite Mr. TESHIMA Satoshi from the Nagasaki Shimbun to ask a question.
(Reporter)
Thank you. I understand that people who experienced the atomic bombing in Nagasaki in areas other than those designated by the Government have been eligible from December last year for medical expense assistance equivalent to that provided to those officially recognized as hibakusha, or atomic bomb survivors. While this has expanded relief to a certain extent, the Atomic Bomb Survivor’s Health Handbook, long sought by these individuals, has yet to be issued to them. In Nagasaki, there have been numerous testimonies suggesting that there were those exposed to radioactive “black rain” or ash, including those not officially recognized as hibakusha, corresponding to the requirements for what the Atomic Bomb Survivors’ Assistance Act defines as “Category 3” survivors. However, these testimonies have not led to their official recognition as hibakusha. As a result, the disparity remains visible between Nagasaki and Hiroshima, where there has been progress in the official recognition of “black rain” victims as hibakusha. In the meantime, in September last year, the Nagasaki District Court issued a judicial decision to recognize as hibakusha those who were in the areas where “black rain” is said to have fallen in Nagasaki. Considering that these individuals, just like officially recognized hibakusha, are aging, do you have any intention of making a political decision to recognize them as hibakusha.
Currently, the global situation surrounding nuclear weapons is becoming tense, with Russia’s aggression against Ukraine accompanied by nuclear threats; fighting involving Israel, de facto nuclear power, and countries like Iran, which is advancing its nuclear development; and the United States attacking nuclear facilities in Iran. The presence of nuclear weapons in reality means increased risk of their use, and organizations of atomic bomb survivors, among others, argue that the theory of nuclear deterrence has collapsed. As Prime Minister of the only country in the world that has suffered atomic bombing during wartime, I ask if you have any intention of taking a step toward participating in the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons as an observer, or by moving toward its signature and ratification as part of concrete efforts to pave the way for a “world without nuclear weapons.”
(PM Ishiba)
Regarding the first part of your question, you are aware that there was a Supreme Court ruling on the issuance of the Atomic Bomb Survivor’s Health Handbook to those who experienced the bombing, but not officially recognized as hibakusha. In that Supreme Court ruling, it was stated that while it is difficult to recognize eligibility in light of objective records and other materials, it remains a fact that 80 years ago in Nagasaki, many people, including those not officially recognized as hibakusha, suffered tragic experiences from the atomic bombing, and this must be passed on to the next generation.
On August 9 last year, then-Prime Minister Kishida instructed the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare to find a reasonable solution, which led to last December’s launch of a new initiative, called the Type II Health Examination Special Zone Medical Treatment Support Program. This program provides medical expense assistance for a wide range of common diseases, equivalent to that provided to officially recognized hibakusha, and we believe this was a significant policy shift. We have implemented this initiative and policy shift in consideration of the immense hardships these individuals have suffered, the continued difficulties they face in their daily lives, and their advanced age. We remain committed to ensuring this response in a steady manner going forward.
You also asked about how we will move toward the abolition of nuclear weapons, including through the so-called observer participation in the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. As I have repeatedly stated in the Diet, we must aim to uphold the independence and peace of Japan and must absolutely protect the lives, physical well-being, and property of our citizens. This is the responsibility that our nation bears toward its people. In addition, I renewed my conviction today that nuclear abolition is another responsibility that Japan, as the only nation to have suffered atomic bombing during wartime, must fulfill for the world and for its people—in the past, at present, and in the future. We must make these two responsibilities compatible because I am convinced that we must fulfill both of them. In this context, nuclear abolition and reduction cannot be achieved without nuclear-weapon states engaging in the discussion. We must have these discussions with the countries possessing nuclear weapons, and I believe this is something you can understand. The only framework in which both nuclear-weapon states and non-nuclear-weapon states participate is the regime of the NPT, or Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. It is within the NPT involving nuclear powers that we intend to promote nuclear reduction and, ultimately, nuclear abolition, based on the “Hiroshima Action Plan.” Let me reiterate that we bear two responsibilities toward our citizens and the world, and we must strive to fulfill both of them. That’s all.
(MC)
Thank you. As the representative of the press corps accompanying the Prime Minister, I would like to invite Mr. Fumiyasu Miyano from the Chugoku Shimbun to ask a question.
(Reporter)
I am Miyano, Chugoku Shinbun. I would like to ask a question on behalf of the Cabinet Press Club.
Following the LDP’s Joint Plenary Meeting of Party Members of Both Houses of the Diet on August 8, what are your thoughts on your responsibility as party president and the necessity of a reshuffle of LDP executives? Regarding the U.S. tariff measures, how do you foresee the timing of the amendment of the presidential order on the reciprocal tariffs and the issuance of a presidential order on lowering automotive tariffs? What are your plans for responding to calls form the automotive industry for support measures to mitigate the impact of the tariffs?
Even after 80 years since the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the complete picture of the damage, including the number of victims, remains unknown. Howe does the Government assess the necessity of conducting an investigation into this matter?
(PM Ishiba)
During yesterday’s Joint Plenary Meeting of Party Members of Both Houses of the Diet, as well as a prior informal meeting, a range of opinions was presented. Based on those opinions and the review of the recent House of Councillors election currently underway within the party, I intend to appropriately consider what needs to be done. As we must deal with many matters in parallel, I intend to deepen my thoughts while properly recognizing these various matters. Regarding a reshuffle of party executives, I am not considering one at present. We have policy challenges that we must deal with day after day, such as the tariff issues that were just pointed out. As I intend to respond to them with all my strength, I am not thinking about a reshuffle of party executives.
Regarding the tariff measures, I understand that Mr. Akazawa, Minister in charge, is returning to Japan today. He has confirmed with U.S. cabinet members the details of the recent Japan-U.S. agreement—namely, a 15% reciprocal tariff and a 15% automotive tariff—while also confirming with them the importance of its faithful and swift implementation. During that discussion, the U.S. explained its intention to take measures to amend the presidential order on reciprocal tariffs at an appropriate time. They also explained that any portion of the reciprocal tariffs collected after August 7—today is August 9—that exceeds the provisions of the Japan-U.S. agreement will be refunded retroactively, starting August 7. This means that there will be retroactive effect. Furthermore, it was confirmed that the U.S. side will issue a presidential order to lower tariffs on automobiles and auto parts at the same time when it takes measures to amend the presidential order on reciprocal tariffs. As I mentioned in Hiroshima the other day, and I also spoke in Tokyo in front of people from the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association and the Japan Auto Parts Industries Association, the automotive industry is a key industry in our country, supporting 5.5 million jobs. We intend to continue to work vigorously in every possible way to ensure that what I just stated will be carried out as quickly and steadily as possible. Even though we are entering the Obon holiday season, ministers and senior officials of relevant ministries and agencies will be working intensively throughout August. The other day in Hiroshima, I really thought about, for example, those in the seasoning industry, the makeup brush industry and the seafood processing industry who are wondering what will happen to them. Since there are 4,318 items exported to the United States and businesses dealing with them range from Hokkaido to Kyushu and Okinawa, many of which are small ones, we must be as meticulous as possible in our current efforts to establish a system to ensure that they can properly understand the situation and to provide the most appropriate support for things like cash flow. I also ask the media outlets to inform us of industries facing difficulties, as we hope to be able to respond even more appropriately.
Eighty years have now passed since the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Japan submitted to the United Nations a document detailing the number of casualties from the bombings in 1976—31 years after the bombings. Now, 80 years since the bombings, with the number of hibakusha decreasing, I am afraid it would be extremely difficult to have a more precise understanding of the situation than the figures presented in 1976, given the time that has passed since then. While we will make every effort to obtain more accurate numbers, I imagine you understand the difficulty in doing so. As I mentioned today, with the passage of time, memories fade and the number of those who experienced the bombings and those officially recognized as hibakusha is decreasing. Given this reality, I believe we must dedicate even more energy than ever before to the efforts of passing on these memories to future generations. Here in Nagasaki, we have received a request to introduce interactive exhibits using digital technology. I have renewed my conviction that the Government must make even greater efforts to convey this experience and the realities of the bombings to more people from broader regions, including those outside of Japan. That’s all.
(Reporter)
This concludes the entire press conference by Prime Minister Ishiba. Thank you.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister