Message from the Prime Minister on the Occasion of National Foundation Day (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Message from the Prime Minister on the Occasion of National Foundation Day
February 10, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
National Foundation Day is a public holiday for the purpose of "recalling the founding of the nation and cultivating a mindset of love of the nation." It is a national holiday on which each Japanese person recalls how the nation was founded, thinks about the efforts made by our forebears to date, and renews his or her hopes for the further development of the nation.
We, the Japanese people, have fostered a unique culture and distinctive traditions that we proudly share with the world, while harmonizing with the abundant natural beauty that can be enjoyed every season and cherishing the kizuna (bonds) that bring people together. Japan now enjoys a high reputation in the international community in many areas, including science, technology, and culture and art, and is contributing to human activities.
Throughout its long history, Japan has countless times faced great difficulties and trials. However, each time, our ancestors brought themselves to their feet full of courage and hope and overcame numerous challenges by bringing about transformations of society, including the Meiji Restoration, our postwar reconstruction, and our high economic growth in the post war era. We have also nurtured a national character that protects freedom and democracy, respects human rights, and upholds the rule of law, bringing us to the present day. We should not forget the fact that the advances Japan enjoys today lie atop the foundation of each individual’s unceasing efforts.
Reflecting on the significance of the footprints left by our ancestors, we will strive to build a nation where all people can feel secure and safe, respect one another’s diverse values, and pursue their dreams while striving for self-fulfillment. Together with the people who live in the present, we will face the challenges facing us and presenting themselves and pass on to future generations of Japanese a nation that we can be proud of to the world. As we commemorate National Foundation Day, I renew my determination in this regard.
I sincerely hope that for you, my fellow citizens, National Foundation Day will be an opportunity to appreciate the efforts made by people who went before us as you look back on the path Japan has taken, as well as an opportunity to aspire to pursue further prosperity for Japan.
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister of Japan
February 11, 2025
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister