Written message from Prime Minister Ishiba for Virtual Leaders Meeting of the Coalition of the Willing on Ukraine (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Written message from Prime Minister Ishiba for Virtual Leaders Meeting of the Coalition of the Willing on Ukraine
July 10, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
On July 10, Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru issued a written message for the “Virtual Leaders Meeting of the Coalition of the Willing on Ukraine,” which was hosted by the Government of UK and the Government of France. The key points made are as follows:
Despite tireless diplomatic efforts by various partners, Russia continues its intense attacks on the whole land of Ukraine, including Kyiv. Japan strongly calls on Russia to take positive actions for a comprehensive ceasefire and the realization of a just and lasting peace.
Security in Europe and that in the Indo-Pacific are inseparable. We need to consider an impact not only on the security in Europe but also on the global security, including on the one in Indo-Pacific region, when the peace in Ukraine is to be achieved. It is also important to establish a peace framework that deters future possible aggression in order to ensure peace. In this regard, the meeting today is very timely. Japan also places importance on the involvement of relevant partners, including the US. We will continue to work in coordination with the international community.
In order to strengthen Ukraine's economic and social resilience, Japan continues to support the recovery and reconstruction in Ukraine through a public-private partnership. In line of this effort, Japan will host the Ukraine Mine Action Conference 2025 on October 22 this year, recognizing mine action as a prerequisite for Ukraine's reconstruction.
We strongly hope that today's meeting will serve as a significant step toward a just and lasting peace in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister