Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Address He Delivered at the National Memorial Ceremony for the War Dead and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Address He Delivered at the National Memorial Ceremony for the War Dead and Other Matters
August 15, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On why, in the address he delivered at the National Memorial Ceremony for the War Dead, Prime Minister Ishiba used the word "remorse" when stating that Japan must take remorse and also the lessons learned from that war deeply to heart, in the context of that word being used by the prime minister during that address for the first time in 13 years; on when, and in what format, Prime Minister Ishiba intends to release a message to mark the passing of 80 years since the end of the war)
At today's ceremony, I delivered my remarks with the aims of offering my heartfelt condolences to all the war dead, and also of handing down across generations the sorrowful memories of the war once again, in consideration of the fact that 80 years have now passed since the war ended and generations with no firsthand experience of war now make up the great majority. Another aim I had was to state we will continue to make all possible efforts for world peace and prosperity while never again repeating the horrors of war.
As for using the word "remorse" in my address, I believe that lessons to be learned arise through remorse -- one feels remorse and then lessons emerge from that. It is not the case that lessons to be learned suddenly appear out of nowhere. So my personal philosophy on the matter is that remorse comes first, and after that, lessons to be learned will come to light. In that sense we could say that it forms an interconnected whole.
I do not believe that thinking is in any way different from the views and the thinking held by the Government until now. I made that statement intending to express the need for us to take deeply into our hearts once again our remorse and also the lessons learned, so that we never again repeat such a war.
As for a message marking 80 years since the end of the war, if I may speak hypothetically, my cabinet would maintain overall the position held by previous administrations with regard to our recognition of history, including the official statements made by prime ministers over the years. We would carry that into the future.
As for what the message for the 80th anniversary year would entail, as of right now, nothing has been decided in concrete terms. As I stated recently in the Diet in response to a question, I will make an appropriate decision on the matter giving due consideration to the official statements released by prime ministers over the years.
If I were to release a message, I would consider it important to come from the perspective that we must not allow memories of the war to fade, and that such a war must never be repeated. Building upon the official statements made by prime ministers until now, I would also consider one of the significant aspects to be articulating a message regarding the matters raised in those statements as well as things we must contemplate. But it is not the case that the specific contents of any such message have been decided.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister