Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding His Visit to Miyagi Prefecture with Prime Minister Modi of India and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding His Visit to Miyagi Prefecture with Prime Minister Modi of India and Other Matters
August 30, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On how Prime Minister Ishiba envisions Japan collaborating with India in the future, after having taken an observation tour of Tokyo Electron Limited's production plant for semiconductor manufacturing equipment together with India's Prime Minister Modi; on whether Prime Minister Ishiba and Prime Minister Modi inspected a E10 series Shinkansen train today, given that Japan and India have confirmed their plan to introduce the new E10 series train model, currently being developed by JR East, into India's high-speed rail system, and if so, on what the two leaders discussed while doing so; on what was discussed at the luncheon meeting earlier today between the two leaders, and whether Prime Minister Ishiba feels he has deepened his personal relationship with Prime Minister Modi; and, on the role Prime Minister Ishiba wants Japan to play against the backdrop of the U.S. Trump administration raising tariffs on India to 50 percent, causing concern that relations within the Quad framework among Japan, the U.S., Australia, and India might deteriorate)
Thank you for your questions. Continuing on from yesterday, again today Prime Minister Modi and I rode the Shinkansen together, then had lunch with each other and went on this observation tour of Tokyo Electron Limited's facilities. As for the Shinkansen, it seems that Prime Minister Modi has ridden the Tokaido Shinkansen before, but this was his first time aboard the Tohoku Shinkansen.
No matter how much you see or hear about it, you really can't imagine how comfortable the ride is unless you truly experience it yourself. After actually sitting in the driver's cabin, I believe Prime Minister Modi was able to feel the speed very distinctly. We talked about railways for the entirety of the roughly hour-and-a-half ride to Sendai.
India is a vast country nine times the size of Japan. So, what significance will constructing a Shinkansen or high-speed rail have there? And how will India change as a result? How much will it cost to ride? And how will it contribute to India's economic development? Will it carry people only, or will it also carry freight? Will there be overnight sleeper cars? I heard somewhere that, early in his tenure as a legislator, Prime Minister Modi often took the overnight train to commute to New Delhi, and I've had similar experiences myself, so we enjoyed a lot of mutually relatable moments as we talked. A train is a place where all the passengers become like friends, sharing that moving space, or as Prime Minister Modi put it, it's a space with a festival-like atmosphere. We really shared the same way of thinking about that.
The aim of having India adopt Japan's Shinkansen technology, by which I mean the various technologies that are part of the Shinkansen train line system as well as its rolling stock, has passed through from the Abe administration to the Suga and Kishida cabinets and now on to my administration. In that regard, I consider it extremely meaningful to have Prime Minister Modi actually take a ride on the Shinkansen. I believe he came to deeply understand how much effort we have invested in its precision and its safety.
The E10 series has not been produced yet, so it is not possible for us to ride an E10. However, Mr. Modi was able to observe the experimental rolling stock “ALFA-X,” the prototype of the E10, while it was stationed at Omiya Station. I think it was highly meaningful for Prime Minister Modi to feel, "Ah ha, this is what it will be like," and to have him see the experimental rolling stock of what we are thinking we would like to introduce in India.
After arriving in Sendai, we had the opportunity to have informal discussions with many people from Miyagi Prefecture who came to meet us, including Governor Murai and the president of Tohoku University.
Miyagi Prefecture is engaged with various exchanges with India. I believe this visit became a superb occasion for reconfirming the significance of deepening not only the interaction between national leaders but also exchanges between local authorities and between individuals.
At Tokyo Electron Limited, we observed the semiconductor manufacturing equipment that is scheduled for delivery to India. Japan is contributing to the development of India's semiconductor industry, and at the same time, that is leading to a diversification of export markets for Japanese companies. Through mutual cooperation, Japan and India intend to continue to promote enhanced supply chain resilience for semiconductors and more robust economic security.
This is not the first time for Prime Minister Modi and I to talk between ourselves about future cooperation between Japan and India. We have talked about this many times before.
Last week, the Tokyo International Conference on African Development, or TICAD, was held. Based on the idea that India, Africa, and the Indian Ocean are all part of one integrated region, rather than Africa being off by itself, we had a very in-depth discussion about the significance of Japan and India joining together to foster the development of that region.
Japan and India share a strikingly similar stance in their commitment to supporting Africa. Prime Minister Modi and I were really on the same wavelength when we discussed how Japan and India both want to foster peace, improve the lives of the people, and bring stability to public order there, or, in short, in how we aim to materialize the happiness of the people of Africa. I feel we held deeply in common the significance of Japan and India working together within the region, both in Asia and the Pacific and also stretching all the way to Africa.
During this visit, we have issued five outcome documents at the summit level. There were 10 memoranda of understanding (MOUs) between our governments and 170 concluded by various private-sector enterprises and other entities. I consider this to be a truly tremendous outcome.
I mentioned Japan-India cooperation a moment ago. Prime Minister Modi and I reaffirmed that Japan should play a highly substantial role within cooperation among Japan, the United States, Australia, and India, including the Quad initiative.
With regard to Japan, the United States, Australia, and India, in order to actually materialize a Free and Open Indo-Pacific, something we often speak of, it is essential to ensure that the role Japan should play, our cooperation with India, and the involvement of the U.S. all continue to be effective. Prime Minister Modi and I deepened our mutual understanding significantly regarding this point. These two days have been very meaningful for me personally as well.
Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-India Summit Meeting (PM in Action)
Visit to Miyagi Prefecture by Prime Minister ISHIBA and Prime Minister Modi of India (PM in Action)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister