Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Opening Ceremony of Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Opening Ceremony of Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan
April 12, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Today, in the gracious presence of Their Majesties the Emperor and Empress and Their Imperial Highnesses Crown Prince and Crown Princess Akishino, I will deliver some remarks here at the Opening Ceremony of Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan, representing the Government of Japan.
We are holding this Opening Ceremony with the participation of more than 160 countries, regions, and international organizations from around the world, as well as a large number of people domestically from not only Osaka City or the Kansai area, but also from all throughout Japan. I extend my heartfelt gratitude to all those who worked so hard and extended their kind cooperation during the preparation for this event.
World expos date back more than 170 years to the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London. They serve both as mirrors reflecting the times and stages that bring together wisdom from the host nation and around the globe to lay out paths forward for how best to overcome common challenges facing humankind.
Looking at the Expos held in Japan until now, we see Expo '70 in Osaka had the theme of "Progress and Harmony for Mankind," while Expo 2005 in Aichi took up "Nature's Wisdom." Now, 20 years later in 2025, under the theme "Designing Future Society for Our Lives," Japan will once again provide a stage for people from around the world to engage in dialogue and exchange. From here we will communicate an image of a "New Japan" to the rest of the world.
Our world, a world that successfully overcame the trying COVID-19 situation, now finds itself facing a crisis of various kinds of division. In times like this, it is of extraordinary significance that people from every corner of the Earth come together, engaging with the theme of "life" and interacting with cutting-edge technology, diverse ways of thinking, and a wide range of cultures.
This celebration spanning 184 days is now poised to begin. The Grand Ring, a symbol of the Expo site, is the largest wooden structure in the world, integrating the state-of-the-art cross-laminated timber (CLT) construction method into traditional Japanese architectural techniques. I strongly hope that all throughout the Expo, both inside and outside this Grand Ring, exchanges among the participating countries and the visitors bear fruit, helping the world becoming increasingly united once more.
Transportation has progressed remarkably since the Expos we hosted in the past. When the curtain rose on Expo '70, the Shinkansen ran only from Tokyo to Osaka, and only the Meishin and Tomei Expressways were in operation. Kansai International Airport did not exist. The progress from that era has been simply tremendous.
I very much hope that the visitors arriving here from around the world will take Osaka, Kansai as their starting point in visiting areas all around Japan, discovering the charm of the "New Japan."
As I conclude my remarks, speaking on behalf of the host country government, I wish to underscore my determination to carry out our responsibility to hold an Expo where people participate safely. I also wish to once again express my sincere appreciation to all those involved in holding this event. Thank you very much.
ISHIBA Shigeru
Prime Minister of Japan
April 12, 2025
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister