Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Summit Telephone Talk with U.S. President Trump (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding His Summit Telephone Talk with U.S. President Trump
May 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
And now, some remarks from me. Just now, for approximately 45 minutes, I had a summit telephone talk with President Trump of the United States of America. President Trump and I engaged in a wide-ranging exchange of views on a number of topics related to the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures, including cooperation in economic security. We also exchanged views on various other issues concerning diplomacy and security, and Mr. Trump outlined for me the outcomes of his recent trip to the Middle East.
I told President Trump that I highly appreciate his diplomatic efforts. I also conveyed to him Japan's position on the U.S. tariff measures. With regard to the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures, I mentioned that Mr. Akazawa is literally en route to the United States at this very moment, as ministerial-level consultations are scheduled to be held. I expressed my high hopes that Minister Akazawa and his U.S. Cabinet counterparts have productive consultations, and President Trump agreed with that sentiment.
I also stated that I very much looked forward to having discussions with President Trump face to face on the sidelines of the G7 summit meeting, which will be held in Canada. President Trump replied that he is looking forward to that opportunity as well. That is all for my opening statement.
(On whether or not the scheduling or any other concrete details about Prime Minister Ishiba's next direct summit talk with President Trump were discussed)
As I mentioned just now, we each said we are looking forward to having talks on the sidelines of the G7 summit meeting in Canada, but depending on the circumstances, I could visit the United States myself to talk with President Trump directly. Nothing concrete has been decided at present.
(On why the summit telephone talk took place at this timing, before the ministerial-level negotiations Minister Akazawa will participate in; and, given that until now the Government of Japan has called for the elimination of all tariff measures, on whether or not there will be any changes to this policy, including how Japan will respond in the future)
This meeting was held upon the proposal of President Trump. As for why we had it at this particular timing, I'm sure you will understand I was not about to ask him, "So why now?" President Trump just completed a series of visits in the Middle East, and I feel our meeting served to reconfirm that Japan and the United States will cooperate going forward, including with regard to economic security. There hasn't been any change in our policy regarding our response to the tariff measures.
(On what exactly Prime Minister Ishiba conveyed to President Trump regarding Japan's position on the tariff measures and how President Trump responded)
It isn't the case that President Trump and I discussed each point one by one, in detail, just now. There is no change to the position we have maintained all along of urging the removal of the tariff measures, and just now, Mr. Trump did not make any concrete statements with regard to that point either.
(On whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba will issue new instructions or anything like that in the lead-up to Minister Akazawa's negotiations, which begin tomorrow)
No, there will be nothing like that. I had a meeting with Mr. Akazawa again this morning to discuss a range of topics, which is something we have been doing daily for some time. There is no change in Japan's call for the elimination of the tariff measures. But as I have been saying until now, this is a matter of "investment rather than tariffs," so the question is what kinds of investments Japan will make in the United States going forward. There is no change whatsoever in the policy of Japan and the U.S. cooperating in the area of how to create employment in the United States.
(On whether or not Prime Minister Ishiba emerged from the summit telephone talk with a positive impression regarding concrete developments or areas of agreement in Japan-U.S. negotiations)
If I dare to use the phrase "win-win," I feel that during our talk as a whole, we confirmed that each of us will work to build just that, "win-win" relations. I once again came away with the acute sense that President Trump and I had an extremely wide range of shared perspectives.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister