Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the U.S. Strikes on Iranian Nuclear-Related Facilities (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the U.S. Strikes on Iranian Nuclear-Related Facilities
June 22, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On how the Japanese Government regards President Trump's announcement that the U.S. has carried out strikes on Iran's nuclear-related facilities, and on whether or not the Government has undertaken any specific responses or issued any instructions, such as for the protection of Japanese nationals)
As reported, this morning, June 22, U.S. President Trump announced that the United States carried out strikes on three nuclear-related facilities in Iran: Fordo, Natanz, and Isfahan. Japan believes that the most important thing, bar none, is to de-escalate the situation as soon as possible. At the same time, Iran's development of nuclear weapons must be prevented. We are currently working to confirm the facts. We are carefully monitoring changes in the situation with grave concern.
I have directed the ministries and agencies concerned to gather information thoroughly in cooperation with relevant countries and take all possible measures to ensure the safety of Japanese nationals across the entire region, notably including Iran and Israel.
I have been informed that at the current time, there has been no impact on Japan's stable energy supply. However, I have directed that the situation continue to be watched carefully with a high degree of vigilance and that all possible responses be taken.
With regard to gasoline and other petroleum products, to ensure that people's daily lives are not impacted from a rise in gasoline prices, we have already taken the decision that, beginning this Thursday, June 26, in addition to our existing measures to reduce the price of gasoline by a fixed amount, we will institute precautionary assistance to dampen down drastic fluctuations in fuel prices so that retail prices do not rise above the level right around the time of the Ukraine crisis. In concrete terms, that means a level of approximately 175 yen per liter on average nationally. We have also decided to provide assistance for electricity and gas bills for the months of July through September, when temperatures climb. I will end my statement here.
(On whether or not the Government of Japan intends to support the recent strikes by the U.S.)
We will have thoroughgoing discussions about that from now within the government. I will respond to that matter when the timing is appropriate.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister