Video Message from Prime Minister Ishiba for the 4th Coast Guard Global Summit  (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message from Prime Minister Ishiba for the 4th Coast Guard Global Summit
September 12, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
I am Ishiba Shigeru, Prime Minister of Japan.
I am delighted to extend my heartfelt congratulations on the grand opening of the 4th Coast Guard Global Summit in Rome, Italy, coinciding with the 160th anniversary of the Italian Coast Guard. I consider it truly wonderful that the “Coast Guard Global Summit,” which began in Tokyo, Japan, in 2017, will be held for the first time overseas in Rome. As the co-chair of this meeting, Japan will make every effort to ensure its success.
The beautiful blue sea has fostered many lifeforms and connected countries through trade and exchange, bringing abundant wealth to the world since ancient times. In order for the entire international community to enjoy peace and prosperity, it is essential that the seas connecting the world remain rich, free, and open based on the rule of law.
However, intensifying geopolitical competition and the threat of international crime have had a significant impact on the freedom and safety of navigation recently. In addition, various global issues, such as marine pollution caused by plastic waste, climate change, and depletion of fishery and marine resources due to overfishing are becoming increasingly serious, threatening the common interests of all living things.
Maintaining peaceful and stable seas, as well as clean and bountiful seas, is in the common interest of all humankind. At the front-line of this effort are the members of coast guards around the world who on a daily basis, carry out the rigorous and noble duties of ensuring the safety of navigation, enforcing laws against illegal activities, and conducting maritime search and rescue operations.
We have responsibilities to protect the oceans we have inherited from our predecessors and pass them on to future generations. I believe it is essential that each and every commander of a coast guard embrace this important mission, bring together the wisdom of all, and work together to resolve these issues. This meeting provides a platform for dialogue and cooperation to achieve this goal.
Through active discussions at this meeting, I sincerely hope that cooperation among coast guards around the world will further develop, and that peace and prosperity in the oceans will continue. With these words, I conclude my remarks. Thank you for your attention.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister