Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Official Ceremony and Event for "Japan Day" at Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Address by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru at the Official Ceremony and Event for "Japan Day" at Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan
July 3, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Today, in the gracious presence of Their Imperial Highnesses the Crown Prince and Crown Princess Akishino, I wish to offer some remarks on behalf of the Government of Japan as we commemorate "Japan Day" at Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan.
More than 10 million people have come to experience this Expo since it first opened its doors on April 13. Stimulating events that spark visitors' interest take place daily, and attendees engage with the vast array of innovative pavilions brimming with originality and ingenuity, all encircled by the magnificent Grand Ring.
The festive atmosphere, so characteristic of an Expo, that permeates this host site of Yumeshima; the sense of unity through which we are creating something arm in arm with people from all around the globe; the excitement of experiencing technology from the future; and, above all else, the countless number of smiling faces found in every corner of the Expo site. When we encounter these, we feel in a very real sense that the theme of "Designing Future Society for Our Lives" not only resonates with the sheer dynamism of the lives of the millions who have come to visit the Expo, but also is taking on tangible shape right before our eyes.
Today we celebrate Japan, the host country, together with people from more than 160 countries, regions, and international organizations taking part in this Expo.
Today, what I want to share with all of you is more than just Japan's traditions and culture. This Expo has, I believe, resulted in all of you having a clear vision of a Japan that stands together with the international community and a Japan that will work shoulder to shoulder with you in creating the future. I very much hope that today, together we envision the path we will follow, heading towards a future of hope, a future towards which you and Japan walk together.
The first half of the Expo is ending shortly, with the midway point coming up soon. Japan will continue to fulfill its responsibilities as the host nation so that we can also welcome visitors safely in the latter half of the Expo period, even as temperatures climb.
I will end my remarks with my heartfelt thanks to everyone who has worked to make this Expo a success. Thank you very much.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister