Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding His Upcoming Visit to the United States and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding His Upcoming Visit to the United States and Other Matters
September 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On what message Prime Minister Ishiba wishes to deliver during his General Debate speech at the United Nations General Assembly, in light of this milestone year marking 80 years since the end of the war and 80 years since the founding of the UN; on what diplomatic outcomes he is aiming for at this session of the UN General Assembly; on the current state of coordination for a summit meeting with U.S. President Trump in particular, as one of multiple individual meetings Prime Minister Ishiba is planning to hold with various world leaders; and, with the Liberal Democratic Party leadership race officially starting yesterday, on what expectations Prime Minister Ishiba has for the upcoming party president)
I will visit the United States from today to attend the United Nations General Assembly. As this is a milestone year marking the 80th anniversary of the founding of the United Nations, in my General Debate speech, I will first look back on the path the international community has walked over the past 80 years, since the UN was founded, and then underline that now is the time to carry out Security Council reform. I also intend to clearly lay out Japan's way of thinking regarding a range of issues, including nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, the situation in the Middle East, global issues, and development.
In particular, with regard to the situation surrounding Palestine, Japan has consistently supported a two-state solution, and I will set out Japan's approach to this matter. And since merely repeating the phrase "two-state solution" won't lead to anything, I will address how to make a two-state solution effective and what Japan should do to help bring about that reality.
Besides my General Assembly speech, I am scheduled to hold meetings with the leaders of Finland and France, among others, as well as with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. And, while my interaction with President Trump is currently being coordinated, we are working to create that opportunity. Various things have taken place over the past year, and I have built up a substantial cooperative relationship with President Trump in dealing with those matters. I would also like to extend my farewell to him as I leave office and convey to him my intention to pass this cooperation on to my successor.
Also, the leadership election [within the Liberal Democratic Party] got underway yesterday. Each of the candidates has been endorsed by 20 Diet members, and I consider every one of them to be outstanding individuals.
Personally, I would be very happy if it turned out that the person selected is someone who truly joined forces with my administration and put in a lot of effort over the past year, who will also carry on with my administration's basic policies, but I won't go so far as to offer any names. Whoever is elected, I hope that person continues on the path we laid out over this past year, as that path is something we all shaped together. That is all from me.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister