Video Message by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru for Japan Innovation Night (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Video Message by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru for Japan Innovation Night
June 19, 2025
Tweet
If you can not view the video,
click here
[Provisional translation]
I am ISHIBA Shigeru, Prime Minister of Japan. To the world’s leaders in drug discovery innovation, welcome to Japan Innovation Night. Thank you very much for attending this event.
Last year, the Government of Japan held the Gate Opening Summit for Innovative Drug Discovery and declared Japan to be a place of drug discovery that can contribute to people around the world. Drug discovery startups, which hold the key to this goal, need to connect with the global drug discovery ecosystem.
As Japan aims to overcome a declining birthrate and an aging population and become a solution-driven advanced nation, the pharmaceutical industry is expected to contribute to alleviating labor shortages, reducing the burden of medical care due to diseases and aging, and improving productivity through the supply of innovative new medicines. The pharmaceutical industry is an important growth engine that leverages Japan’s science and technology capabilities. We are strongly promoting measures to support drug discovery startups so that our pharmaceutical industry will be a driving force for future economic growth.
As an example of this, RegCell, a company that develops treatments for autoimmune diseases and cancer using innovative technology from the University of Osaka and Kyoto University, established a new base in the United States in March of this year, with investment from the United States and support from the Government of Japan.
About 10 Japanese startups are also participating in this event with the aim of developing their business in the United States. I sincerely hope you will consider making the decision to invest in Japanese innovation.
In Japan, in order to strengthen Japan’s drug discovery capabilities, we established a new public private committee in June of this year, which is composed of Japanese and overseas companies and investors, and we will strengthen our efforts in this field.
Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan is currently being held with the theme of “Designing Future Society for Our Lives.” It is showcasing advanced initiatives in biotechnology, including regenerative medicine such as the iPS heart. Furthermore, BIO JAPAN will be held in Yokohama this fall. We hope that many of you will come to Japan to experience Japan’s technological capabilities and new appeal.
We sincerely look forward to your investment and to welcoming you to Japan. Thank you very much for your attention.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister