Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Heavy Rain Emergency Warning Issued for Kagoshima Prefecture (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru regarding the Heavy Rain Emergency Warning Issued for Kagoshima Prefecture
August 8, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the Government’s current assessment of the situation, its response and its call for vigilance following the issuance by the Japan Meteorological Agency of a heavy rain emergency warning for Kirishima, Kagoshima Prefecture, which has highly likely been hit by landslides and other serious disasters)
I understand that heavy rains caused by linear rainbands are occurring in various parts of the country, including Kirishima, Kagoshima Prefecture, where a heavy rain emergency warning has been issued. The Government has also been informed of the content of the press conference held by the Japan Meteorological Agency this morning and we are making every effort to identify accurate, real-time information. An Information Contact Office was set up within the Prime Minister’s Office on August 6 to respond to the series of heavy rainfalls. At 5 a.m. today, following the issuance of the heavy rain emergency warning, this Information Contact Office was reorganized into the Prime Minister Office’s Emergency Contact Office. We are currently working on disseminating information to the public, assessing the situation in each area and implementing emergency disaster response measures, and supporting safe and smooth evacuations, among other things. We remain committed to taking all possible measures to respond to the situation.
I urge the residents in the areas where the heavy rain emergency warning has been issued to stay alert, as your lives may be in danger. In some situations, remaining where you are may be a safer option than evacuating, so please pay close attention to the information being issued. We will continue to take all possible measures to prevent further accidents to ensure your safety. That’s all.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister