Special Address by Prime Minister Ishiba at the Sasakawa Peace Foundation-Hosted TICAD9 Side Event on “Building Sustainable, Resilient and Inclusive Food Systems and Local Economies in Africa Anchored in the Blue Economy and Agriculture” (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Special Address by Prime Minister Ishiba at the Sasakawa Peace Foundation-Hosted TICAD9 Side Event on “Building Sustainable, Resilient and Inclusive Food Systems and Local Economies in Africa Anchored in the Blue Economy and Agriculture”
August 20, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Excellencies and distinguished participants from Africa,
Mr. SASAKAWA Yohei, Honorary Chairman of the Nippon Foundation,
Dr. SUNAMI Atsushi, President of the Sasakawa Peace Foundation,
Mr. SUZUKI Shuichi, President of the Sasakawa Africa Association,
Ladies and gentlemen,
I very much appreciate the invitation to participate in this event on “Building Sustainable, Resilient and Inclusive Food Systems and Local Economies in Africa Anchored in the Blue Economy and Agriculture.”
The international community currently faces a number of multifaceted crises. These include humanitarian crises caused by conflict as well as global-level issues such as energy and food crises, disaster management issues, and climate change. Among these, food security is one of the paramount development challenges for attaining human security.
In Africa, agricultural production rose in years past, but consumption is also on the rise as a result of population growth, and I understand that there is heavy reliance on imports for such things as rice and wheat in particular. In addition, even now, more than half of Africa's labor force works in agriculture, while the yield per unit area remains at a level below the world average.
Improving agricultural productivity is still a major issue for Africa, and against that backdrop, I believe that the question of how to build sustainable, resilient, and inclusive food systems, the theme of this event, is critically significant.
At the African Union Extraordinary Summit held in January, the Kampala Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme Declaration was adopted by all African Union member states. The Food Basket Initiative introduced at that time is a vision that mobilizes characteristics particular to various areas around the African continent and selects priority crops for each region, which are then distributed across national borders. Japan supports this initiative, which aims to raise the food self-sufficiency rate of the African continent by creating resilient agrifood systems.
Japan has expertise in technology as well as know-how in cultivating human resources. These we pair with a “field-based approach” under which we create solutions to problems by working together with local people. For example, the development of NERICA rice is well-known. Specifically, it was research conducted by Dr. [Monty] Jones of Sierra Leone in combination with on-the-ground application by Japanese agricultural expert Mr. TSUBOI [Yoshiaki] that bore fruit. In line with our motto of "working up a sweat shoulder to shoulder with our counterparts is fundamental," NERICA rice was popularized by carefully explaining cultivation methods to farmers, providing them with seed rice, and then spreading the highest-yielding seeds to more and more farmers in the surrounding community. I understand that at present, greater yields of high-quality rice have been achieved in 23 African countries.
TICAD9, which convenes today, is being held under the theme of "Co-create Innovative Solutions with Africa," with a view to jointly exploring solutions that take advantage of both Japan’s and Africa's areas of strength.
I would like now to introduce some of Japan's efforts in the areas of agriculture, fisheries, and aquaculture that align with this direction.
One Japanese company is engaged in cooperation that makes use of a mechanism that dispenses optimal amounts of water and fertilizer and identifies the most advantageous schedule for providing them to crops. I understand that this information comes from AI analyses of agricultural plot data collected through satellites and sensors.
In addition, a "blue economy" approach utilizing the resource of Africa's marine areas may also serve as a key to improving the food supply. Japan has expertise in such areas as aquaculture and data management that harnesses the power of digital technologies. Japanese institutions and organizations have been making contributions over the years in areas such as promoting sustainable fishery and aquaculture industries in Africa and combating illegal fishing. The Sasakawa Peace Foundation is one highly distinguished example that is engaged in such efforts.
Under the Initiative for Food and Nutrition Security in Africa launched by the Japan International Cooperation Agency, or JICA, Japan is cooperating towards the creation of resilient African agrifood systems by producing enough food for 250 million people, improving nutrition for 92,000 people, and increasing the incomes of 120,000 small-scale farming households, among other undertakings. In addition to these efforts, we will contribute to improved food security and nutrition in Africa through collaborative financing by JICA and the World Bank.
Japan will enhance its cooperation with not only the distinguished participants here today but also governments of African countries, the African Union, and the African Development Bank, as well as other relevant individuals and entities, including international organizations and private enterprises.
Let us work to advance a wide range of efforts and cooperation so as to contribute to the strengthening of Africa's agrifood systems, leading to a future in which more people can live their lives with a sense of security.
I hope that today's forum is a truly fruitful one for all. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister