Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion at the 30th Japan-EU Summit (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion at the 30th Japan-EU Summit
July 23, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
I am truly delighted to extend my heartfelt welcome to His Excellency President Costa and Her Excellency President von der Leyen, and to have had the honor of hosting the commemorative 30th Japan-EU Summit.
Japan and the EU are strategic partners that share common values and principles. Bolstering the Japan-EU relationship will further enhance peace and prosperity in Japan and across the Indo-Pacific region. Moreover, a strong and stable Japan-EU relationship is essential for maintaining and strengthening the free and open international order based on the rule of law.
Today, we looked back on the progress Japan-EU cooperation has enjoyed, and with a view to further boosting our cooperation, we issued a joint leaders’ statement. In the field of security, we agreed to advance cooperation towards launching a Defense Industry Dialogue centered around industry, with the aim of reinforcing the defense industrial base, a priority area for both sides. We also agreed to commence formal negotiations on a Japan-EU Security of Information Agreement.
Amidst the current turbulent global situation, the importance of aligning our security perceptions with the EU, a partner that shares common values and principles, is greater than ever. The security of Ukraine, the Middle East, and East Asia is interconnected. Under the shared understanding that the security of Europe and the Indo-Pacific is inseparable, we will continue to engage in candid dialogue at various levels, including opportunities such as today’s summit meeting, on how to respond to the international situation.
In the field of the economy, we agreed to work together to maintain and strengthen the free and fair economic order based on stable and predictable rules, including by protecting the multilateral trading system that has the WTO at its core. We also decided to expand the Japan-EU High-Level Economic Dialogue and launched the “Japan-EU Competitiveness Alliance” to enhance both sides’ competitiveness and contribute to resolving issues related to economic security and global challenges.
Today’s summit provided an opportunity to reaffirm the importance of Japan and the EU working together with the G7 and other partners to maintain and develop a desirable international order at a time when the international situation is at a turning point.
I would like to express my appreciation to President Costa and President von der Leyen for their visit to Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai, Japan yesterday. I hope that cultural and people-to-people exchanges between Japan and Europe will deepen further through the Expo.
Thank you very much. That concludes my remarks.
Related Link
Japanese
The 30th Japan-EU Summit (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister