Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures
April 17, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(In the wake of the meetings held from the early hours of April 17th Japan time between Minister in charge of Economic Revitalization Akazawa and, on the U.S. side, President Trump, Treasury Secretary Bessent, and others concerning U.S. tariff measures, on Prime Minister Ishiba's assessment of the negotiations and how the Japanese Government will respond going forward, and on the current status of coordination regarding Prime Minister Ishiba holding a direct meeting with President Trump)
I was briefed just now by Minister Akazawa, who is currently visiting Washington, D.C. Insofar as Minister Akazawa himself has already provided an overview of the meeting, I will refrain from making any comments on the specifics, but I have been informed that a considerable amount of time was devoted to the meetings, in which candid and constructive discussions were held. These include a 50-minute session attended by President Trump and a subsequent 75-minute meeting with Treasury Secretary Bessent, Commerce Secretary Lutnick, and Trade Representative Greer. Of course, there continue to be differences in the positions of Japan and the United States.
I understand that President Trump gave Minister Akazawa a frank overview of how he views the position in which the United States finds itself within the international economy. This is similar to the remarks Mr. Trump made to me during our talk. For his part, during the subsequent Japan-U.S. Consultation session, Minister Akazawa stated that the U.S. tariff measures were deeply regrettable and then laid out Japan's position, including, among other points, the potential impacts on Japanese industries and on the expansion of investment and employment in both Japan and the United States. He then strongly urged the United States to reconsider its series of tariff measures.
Needless to say, our consultations going forward will continue to be challenging, but President Trump himself said that he places topmost priority on consultations with Japan. I regard this consultation as laying the groundwork for the next round, and as such I evaluate it highly. It was decided that in the future, we will continue to hold consultations at the ministerial level.
Even as I keep a weather eye on the progress of our ministerial-level consultations, naturally, I am thinking about visiting the United States myself at the most appropriate timing to hold a direct meeting with President Trump. Giving due consideration to the outcome of today's consultation, the Government will continue to make all-out efforts, working as a unified force and addressing this issue as our utmost priority.
(In light of President Trump's remarks prior to the meeting with Minister Akazawa that the cost of military support will also be a topic of discussion, on whether or not that topic was raised during this round of negotiations)
I'm afraid I must refrain from making comments on the specifics of the discussion, as we are currently engaged in negotiations.
(On the specific timing of a visit to the United States by Prime Minister Ishiba)
Nothing specific has been decided at present regarding the timing. Minister Akazawa will provide me with a direct report upon his return to Japan, and the Government as a whole will take up this matter for discussion. I'm afraid all I can say now is that once that concludes, I intend to pay a visit to the United States at the timing that will be most opportune.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister