Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with Prime Minister Briceño of Belize (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Prime Minister Ishiba’s Remarks at the Joint Press Occasion with Prime Minister Briceño of Belize
August 4, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Ishiba]
It is a great pleasure and honor to welcome the Honorable Prime Minister Briceño of Belize to Japan during his visit to mark Belize's National Day at Expo 2025, Osaka, Kansai, Japan.
Japan and Belize are important partners that share common values and principles. At a time when the free and open international order based on the rule of law is facing challenges, it is tremendously encouraging that our bilateral relationship has been further strengthened through multiple high-level dialogues, including as a result of last year’s "Japan-CARICOM Friendship Year" and this year’s "Japan-SICA (Central American Integration System) Friendship Year."
At the summit meeting we just concluded, we reaffirmed the importance of guiding the international community towards dialogue and cooperation rather than division and confrontation. We also agreed to further develop our bilateral relations across a wide range of areas, including economic cooperation and people-to-people exchanges.
After we conclude this press occasion, I will hold a candid exchange of views with Prime Minister Briceño, who is well-versed in both Japan and East Asian affairs, on regional affairs, including the situation in the Indo-Pacific. We also intend to deepen our discussions on cooperating in response to common issues needing to be addressed by the international community, such as United Nations Security Council reform and climate change.
Japan and Belize will further strengthen our ties through both people-to-people exchanges and material cooperation. Taking Prime Minister Briceño’s visit to Japan as an opportunity, we hope to further strengthen our cooperation and coordination.
Thank you.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister