Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister ISHIBA Shigeru Regarding the Japan-U.S. Consultation on U.S. Tariff Measures
July 2, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On the policy the Government of Japan (GOJ) will take in its responses to the United States going forward, in light of President Trump saying on July 1 he "doubts" the U.S. will successfully make a deal with Japan and that the U.S. may impose tariffs of 30 to 35 percent on Japanese goods, as well as dissatisfaction he expressed towards the GOJ several days in a row regarding trade in automobiles and rice; on whether or not the GOJ intends to request an extension of the period for suspending the tariffs, as the date for triggering additional mutual tariffs (July 9) approaches; and on the responsibility held by Minister Akazawa, as the person in charge of these tariff negotiations with the U.S.)
Insofar as we are now in the midst of consultations, I will not comment on any specific remarks that President Trump has made. Japan and the United States have held a number of consultations in a genuinely earnest manner with the goal of realizing an outcome that is in the national interest of both countries. We have made our best possible efforts to identify areas of common ground, and we will continue to make such efforts into the future. Our stance is that negotiations must result in true benefits for both sides; they cannot deliver benefits to only one side. In keeping with this, we have engaged in all respects in sincere negotiations grounded firmly in our national interests and we continue to do so even now. That is how I regard the matter.
Minister Akazawa has visited the United States seven times already, on an almost weekly basis, to take part in these negotiations at various key stages along the way. I hold the efforts he has made in high regard. He has worked tirelessly and dedicated all his efforts to bringing these talks to a successful conclusion, and I believe his efforts have been truly meaningful.
(On how the GOJ would respond if negotiations were terminated, in light of President Trump commenting that he is "not thinking about" extending the period in which U.S. tariffs have been paused)
With regard to that matter, I'm unable to answer what we would do should such a situation arise. All I can say is that we will do our utmost to attain an outcome to these tariff negotiations that genuinely serves the national interests of both countries.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister