Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding Japan's Response concerning the Situation in Ukraine and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister Ishiba regarding Japan's Response concerning the Situation in Ukraine and Other Matters
February 25, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(In light of Prime Minister Ishiba attending the G7 online summit meeting on the evening of February 24 and coordination on the G7 joint statement on Ukraine still taking place, on how Japan will respond to the situation in Ukraine going forward)
The first point is an immediate stop to the war. Another point is that a just and lasting peace must be realized in Ukraine. To achieve those, the engagement of the United States of America is crucially important, and the other G7 countries should offer their  support accordingly. The important thing is for the G7 to act in unity. We all hold a shared recognition about those four points.
In working towards such an outcome, Japan must continue to cooperate with the other countries of the G7 and work to attain a just and lasting peace in Ukraine. As for the G7 joint statement, coordination is now underway regarding various points. As for the subtleties of the wording of the statement, my understanding is that there are no critical differences.
(On how Prime Minister Ishiba evaluates the achievements of the late Mr. WATANABE Tsuneo, Representative Director and Editor-in-Chief of the Yomiuri Shimbun Holdings, as well as Mr. Ishiba's reflections or thoughts upon having attended Mr. Watanabe's memorial service)
I had the opportunity to meet Mr. Watanabe on various occasions, beginning when I was still at an early stage in my political career. What left an especially deep impression on me was Mr. Watanabe saying that the media and newspapers play an essential role in the development of democracy. He also had a strong sense of mission as a journalist, arguing that there must be healthy discourse in order for democracy to flourish. Moreover, he had a penetrating eye with regard to history. When looking at where and what kinds of problems arose in history, and where and what kinds of mistakes were made, without being swayed by his feelings, he always maintained a level-headed manner without becoming emotional. I feel he thoroughly fulfilled his responsibilities as a journalist all throughout his career.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister