Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae after Attending the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae after Attending the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting
November 1, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening Statement by Prime Minister Takaichi]
Good afternoon, everyone. As I conclude my visit to Gyeongju, Republic of Korea, for the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, I would like to share some of my thoughts.
Today is the twelfth day since my appointment as Prime Minister. Over the past week, I have had an intensive and highly meaningful series of engagements: beginning with the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings in Malaysia, followed by the visit to Japan by President Donald Trump of the United States, and concluding with the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. It has truly been a week of active and substantive diplomacy.
Through this series of diplomatic engagements, I was able to put into practice the key principles I have upheld since assuming office — namely, to advance a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) and further evolve this vision in line with the changing times; to elevate the Japan–U.S. Alliance to even greater heights; and to build solid relationships of trust and cooperation with the region’s major partners through candid dialogue.
We are now taking firm and steady steps towards restoring Japanese diplomacy that flourishes on the world's center stage. I was also deeply appreciative of the warm welcome extended to me by President Trump and the many other world leaders I met during this series of meetings, along with their kind words of congratulations on my appointment as Prime Minister. Through these exchanges, I believe I was able to establish personal relationships of trust that will serve as a solid foundation for our future bilateral relations.
I have just concluded my participation in the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. Under the overarching theme of ‘Building a Sustainable Tomorrow’ and the priorities: ‘Connect, Innovate, Prosper,’ I engaged in active discussions with the leaders of the participating economies. Sustainable growth and prosperity of the Asia–Pacific region are indispensable to building a strong Japanese economy. During the meeting, I emphasized the importance of maintaining and strengthening a rules-based, free and fair economic order, as well as upholding the high standards of the CPTPP. I also stressed the urgent need to address the pressing challenges facing the WTO without delay. Furthermore, I expressed Japan’s determination to contribute to regional development and resolution of social issues through strategic growth-oriented investment, under cooperation between the public and private sectors, in key areas such as artificial intelligence, digital technology, energy, and infrastructure.
The Gyeongju Declaration, adopted amongst the APEC Leaders this year, reflects many of the priorities that Japan attaches great importance to. I take this as a sign that Japan’s perspectives and approaches are widely shared and supported by many economies. It was also decided that Japan will serve as the Chair of APEC in 2031. Looking ahead, Japan will make thorough preparations to ensure the success of its chairmanship.
During this visit to attend the APEC meeting, I also held meetings with leaders of participating economies, including President Xi Jinping of China and President Lee Jae Myung of the Republic of Korea.
With President Xi, we confirmed the broad direction between our two countries to comprehensively promote a “Mutually Beneficial Relationship Based on Common Strategic Interests” and build “constructive and stable Japan-China relations.” We also discussed pending issues. I emphasized that precisely because there are concerns and differences in views between our two countries, it is essential for the leaders to engage in direct and candid dialogue. I hope that this meeting will serve as an opportunity for Japan and China to address various challenges and advance cooperation.
During my summit meeting with President Lee Jae Myung of the Republic of Korea, we affirmed the importance of Japan–ROK relations as well as Japan–ROK–U.S. cooperation amid the current strategic environment. We confirmed that we will develop Japan-ROK relations in a future-oriented and stable manner, based on the foundation of our bilateral relations which has been established since the normalization of Japan-ROK relations. To this end, we agreed to continue close communication between our two governments, including through the implementation of “shuttle diplomacy.”
In addition, I held a meeting today with the Rt. Hon. Mark Carney, Prime Minister of Canada. We confirmed our further collaboration toward realizing a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) and engaged in a candid exchange of views on various current international situations.
Next year marks the tenth anniversary since former Prime Minister ABE Shinzo first advocated FOIP in 2016. However, the free, open, and stable international order that we have long embraced is being profoundly shaken, and strong foreign and security policies are needed now more than ever.
I began with my visit to attend the ASEAN-related summit meetings, welcomed President Trump in Japan, and have carried out highly important diplomacy here in the Republic of Korea as well. However, our efforts to restore Japanese diplomacy that flourishes on the world's center stage have only just begun.
We will continue to work resolutely to further strengthen the Japan–U.S. Alliance, which is the greatest alliance in the world today, to deepen cooperation with a wide range of partners toward realizing FOIP, and to reinforce relationships of trust with key counterparts in the region. Building on the achievements of this round of diplomacy, I am determined to devote my full efforts to each of these priorities.
That concludes my opening remarks.
Related Link
Japanese
APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and Other Events (3)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister