Contributed Article "Making Japan and ASEAN stronger and more prosperous together" by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae to the Malaysian newspapers The New Straits Times, The Berita Harian, and The Sin Chew Daily (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Contributed Article "Making Japan and ASEAN stronger and more prosperous together" by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae to the Malaysian newspapers The New Straits Times, The Berita Harian, and The Sin Chew Daily
October 26, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
I extend my heartfelt congratulations on Malaysia’s hosting of the ASEAN Summit and Related Meetings. It is my great pleasure to visit Malaysia as my first overseas destination since assuming the office of Prime Minister and to participate in this prestigious event.
This year marks several historic milestones, including the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the ASEAN Community, the adoption of the ASEAN Community Vision 2045, and the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the East Asia Summit (EAS). As the heart of the Indo-Pacific region and a global center of growth, ASEAN is becoming increasingly important. I commend Malaysia for promoting regional prosperity through vibrant trade and investment, and for its exceptional leadership as the ASEAN Chair this year. Japan fully supports ASEAN’s resolve and Malaysia’s efforts as the ASEAN Chair to realize a “resilient, innovative, dynamic, and people-centered ASEAN Community.”
Japan and ASEAN have been building a relationship as “Trusted Partners” with “heart-to-heart” ties for over half a century. In January 2013, shortly after his administration took office, then-Prime Minister Shinzo Abe also visited Southeast Asia as his first overseas destination, and outlined Japan’s basic foreign policy toward ASEAN. The Joint Vision Statement on the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation, which was adopted in December 2023, outlined the three pillars of our partnership: Peace and Stability, Co-creation of the Economy and Society of the Future, and Heart-to-Heart Partners across Generations. Building on these friendly ties, I will also do my utmost to ensure that Japan and ASEAN become stronger and more prosperous together.
Japan and ASEAN have also undertaken various initiatives involving people-to-people exchanges. For example, we have been steadily and effectively implementing the “WA Project,” which has two main focuses: a “Two-way Intellectual and Cultural Exchange” and “NIHONGO Partners.” The latter entails dispatching assistant Japanese language teachers to host countries in the Asian region and has a track record of approximately 3,000 participants. Furthermore, we have been actively conducting youth exchanges through programs like “The Ship for Southeast Asian and Japanese Youth Program (SSEAYP),” which celebrated its 50th anniversary last year, and JENESYS (the Japan-East Asia Network of Exchange for Students and Youths), as well as student exchanges facilitated by ASCOJA (the ASEAN Council of Japan Alumni) and its supporting organization, ASJA (Asia Japan Alumni) International. Through these initiatives, we will deepen trust and mutual understanding among the next generation of leaders.
Based on this trust and mutual understanding, strategic and proactive investment in new fields such as digital and green technologies is essential for Japan and ASEAN to co-create the economy and society of the future and grow together.
In the digital field, AI has great potential to significantly transform and develop the economy and society. Therefore, Japan will promote “safe, secure, and trustworthy AI,” advance the establishment of international AI governance, and promote innovation utilizing AI. Science and technology, which form the basis of innovation, are also important. ASEAN is an important partner in achieving the goal I have set of becoming a “new nation of technology.” We will strengthen international joint research and researcher exchanges in fields involving frontier technologies such as AI, quantum technology, and semiconductors in flexible and multilayered ways.
In addition, regarding the green sector, I will co-host the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders’ Meeting with Prime Minister Anwar of Malaysia during my visit. Using various technologies, we will advance tangible cooperation with ASEAN countries, in line with their respective transition pathways, to simultaneously achieve decarbonization, economic growth, and energy security.
Furthermore, to respond to increasingly severe disasters and provide humanitarian assistance, Japan will continue supporting the activities and human resource development of the ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on Disaster Management (AHA Centre). Japanese experts are also actively contributing to the establishment of the ASEAN Centre for Public Health Emergencies and Emerging Diseases (ACPHEED) and capacity-building support.
While moving forward with such exchanges and cooperation, we must also confront the reality that the free and open international order based on the rule of law faces unprecedented challenges in various parts of the world. Today, the partnership between Japan and ASEAN for peace and stability is of utmost importance. Whether in Asia, Europe, or anywhere in the world, unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force must not be tolerated.
Japan’s Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) share fundamental principles, such as openness, transparency, inclusiveness, and respect for the rule of law. Furthermore, we will adopt a joint statement at this ASEAN-Japan Summit to promote synergies and further cooperation between FOIP and AOIP for peace, stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region.
Finally, I would like to express my renewed gratitude to Malaysia and the other ASEAN Member States, and to the ASEAN Secretariat, for their  participation and cooperation in Expo 2025 Osaka, Kansai, Japan, which was successfully concluded recently. I would like to add that many Japanese citizens visited the Malaysia Pavilion, themed “Weaving a Future in Harmony,” experienced its diverse and rich culture, and found Malaysia to be an even more familiar and attractive country for Japan.
As a “Trusted Partner,” Japan remains committed to further strengthening its broad cooperation with Malaysia and other ASEAN member states.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister