Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae regarding the Summit of "Central Asia plus Japan" Dialogue (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae regarding the Summit of "Central Asia plus Japan" Dialogue
December 20, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(Reporter)
I am Yoshino with TV Asahi, representing the Cabinet Press Club. Could you share the results of the first Summit under the "Central Asia plus Japan" Dialogue framework? Also how does Japan intend to strengthen relations with the five Central Asian countries including strategies regarding oil and rare metals imports, in light of their relationships with Russia and China, with whom the countries have strong security and economic ties and had summit meetings ahead of Japan? Also did you  convey messages to the leaders correcting or rebutting China’s criticisms on your remarks regarding a contingency involving Taiwan?
(Prime Minister Takaichi)
Thank you very much. Earlier today, I hosted the first-ever leaders’ meeting of the “Central Asia plus Japan” Dialogue with the attendance of the presidents of the five Central Asian countries. This Dialogue is a framework that Japan launched in 2004 ahead of other countries.
Central Asia possesses significant strategic importance and great potential, from the perspectives of geopolitics, economic security, and mutually beneficial business opportunities. I am pleased that, on the occasion of this leaders’ meeting, more than 150 documents from both the public and private sectors were signed and presented. Leveraging the high potential of the five Central Asian countries, and with the aim of promoting industrial upgrading and further elevating mutually beneficial cooperative relations with Japan, I announced the launch of the “CA+JAD Tokyo Initiative.” In addition, we adopted the Tokyo Declaration as a joint declaration amongst the leaders of Japan and the five countries.
Going forward, we will promote mutually beneficial projects especially focusing on three key areas: green resilience, connectivity, and human resource development.
In particular, on this occasion, we expressed our intention to support the smooth functioning of global supply chains, including the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route, and to strengthen cooperation in the field of artificial intelligence through the Central Asia-Japan Partnership for AI Cooperation.
Central Asia is also a region rich in energy and mineral resources. With regard to critical minerals in particular, we will enhance cooperation aimed at strengthening global supply chains through the diversification of supply sources.
Furthermore, in light of the high expectations for the future of our economic relations, we have set a target of implementing private-sector projects totaling approximately three trillion yen over the next five years.
With regard to the series of developments by the Chinese side that you have mentioned, we are aware of them. While we refrain from discussing details of diplomatic exchanges, in general terms, it is the position of the Government of Japan that gaining the understanding of other countries is of paramount importance. Accordingly, we have continued to explain Japan’s position to various countries on a wide range of occasions.
Through our dialogue with the leaders of the five Central Asian countries, I strongly felt the bonds rooted in our history of exchanges through the Silk Road, as well as the deep trust in Japan and the high expectations towards us.
Taking this leaders’ meeting, as well as the bilateral summit meetings with each leader, as an opportunity, we intend to further strengthen our relations with Central Asia.
That will be all from myself.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister