Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae Regarding her Attendance at the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae Regarding her Attendance at the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings and Other Matters
October 26, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Takaichi's attendance at the ASEAN-related Summit Meetings and the upcoming Summit Meeting with U.S. President Donald Trump)
This was my first overseas trip since assuming office as Prime Minister. I am visiting Malaysia who is the Chair of ASEAN this year, and today I attended the Japan–ASEAN Summit Meeting as well as the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting. In addition, I held bilateral meetings with the leaders of likeminded countries such as President Marcos of the Philippines, Prime Minister Anwar of Malaysia, and Prime Minister Albanese of Australia. I also had brief exchanges with other leaders, including Prime Minister Chinh of Vietnam and Prime Minister Hun Manet of Cambodia.
As I mentioned prior to my departure, Japan will continue to advance its diplomacy with the “Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP)” as a central pillar, while ensuring that the initiative evolves in step with the times. During this visit, I emphasized this point to the leaders in attendance, and carefully explained Japan’s new initiatives in key areas such as maritime security, artificial intelligence (AI), and economic cooperation. Through these discussions, I believe we were able to establish a firm foundation of mutual trust that will underpin future cooperation with these nations.
At the AZEC Leaders Meeting, we reaffirmed the importance of cooperation toward achieving net zero through diverse pathways while simultaneously pursuing decarbonization, economic growth, and energy security, as well as confirm the progress that we have been able to achieve over the past year. Participation in the ASEAN-related summit meetings allowed us to confirm the strengthening of collaboration with ASEAN member states, who are the key to realizing FOIP as well as being
engines of global growth,
and other likeminded partners. I consider this visit to have been highly meaningful, also for Japan’s own economic growth going forward. Japan and ASEAN will continue to work together vigorously to become stronger and more prosperous together.
Last night, I held a telephone summit meeting with President Trump, and tomorrow we will welcome him to Japan. Although our schedules did not align in Malaysia,
I have heard that earlier today,
the Chair had the opportunity to meet with President Trump and conveyed that he is very much looking forward to his visit to Japan and to our meeting. I intend to use this opportunity to further strengthen the relationship with Japan's important ally, the United States
(On how the Prime Minister intends to engage with the leadership of China going forward)
Due to scheduling constraints, I must return to Japan at this time. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will arrive shortly to attend the remaining events on my behalf. There will be further opportunities ahead, such as the upcoming APEC meetings, and I believe we will have various occasions for engagement in those settings.
(On the recent Cabinet approval ratings)
I would prefer not to comment on specific polling figures, but if indeed there are high expectations from the public, I believe it is crucial to follow through on our words with concrete action and to move politics forward decisively. We will respond firmly to the challenges people are facing, particularly the issue of rising prices. At the same time, in order to safeguard Japan’s peace, we will steadily advance the various initiatives outlined in my policy speech. In short — action, action, and getting to work. That is my determination.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister