Policy Speech by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae to the 219th Session of the Diet (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Policy Speech by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae to the 219th Session of the Diet
October 24, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
Introduction
Basic policy on economic and fiscal initiatives
Measures to address rising prices
Achieving robust economic growth through bold strategic investments that enhance resilience against potential crises
Food security
Energy security
Measures to enhance national resilience during the Reiwa era
Health and medical security
Preserving our regional areas and our ways of life
Diplomacy and security
Constitutional reform, revision of the Imperial Household Law, and commemorating the 100th anniversary of the start of the Showa era
Conclusion
1. Introduction
Bolstered by a strong and unwavering belief in the latent power and vitality of Japan and the Japanese people, I stand before you today as I take on the duty of forging a path for Japan's future.
I will strive to build a robust economy, turning people's unease and apprehension over their current lives and the future into hope and foster a Japan that is stronger and more prosperous. I will deal with the challenges facing the international community as I embark on restoring Japanese diplomacy that flourishes on the world's center stage. I will do these resolutely for the sake of Japan and the Japanese people, filled with the determination to press ahead tenaciously under any circumstances.
We will be powerless to press forward with dynamic economic policies or potent diplomatic and security policies if we fail to have stability in politics. Guided by this thought, I have established a coalition government between the Liberal Democratic Party and the Japan Innovation Party under a wide-ranging policy agreement that aims at the revival of Japan.
Moreover, we will make politics stable for the benefit of both the nation and the Japanese people. We will accept policy proposals from other parties as long as they are not inconsistent with the Basic Policy of this administration and demonstrate flexibility and sincerity when discussing them. We will make all-out efforts to undertake reforms that restore the public's trust in politics.
We will persevere to the very end, whatever the circumstances, if it is for Japan and the Japanese people. This is the unshakable policy of the Takaichi Cabinet.
2. Basic policy on economic and fiscal initiatives
Fostering a robust economy will be absolutely essential, no matter what we seek to implement. I will now talk about the basic policy governing the economic and fiscal initiatives we will pursue to bring about such an economy.
My cabinet regards as fundamental the principle that the economy is what enables fiscal spending. In order to build a robust economy, we will strategically employ fiscal policies as we endeavor to raise incomes, transform people's mindsets regarding consumption, and boost tax revenues without raising tax rates as business earnings increase, all in keeping with our approach of responsible and proactive public finances. By realizing this economic virtuous cycle, we will enable the public to feel the fruits of economic recovery in a tangible manner, thereby changing worry into hope.
Following this path, we will curb the rate of growth of Japan's outstanding debt balance so as not to exceed the rate of economic growth and lower Japan's ratio of outstanding government debt to GDP. This will bring about the sustainability of public finances and ensure trust from the markets.
3. Measures to address rising prices
My cabinet will mount responses to the rising prices facing the Japanese people, as a matter of the highest priority. We will swiftly and without fail bring a sense of security to people in their daily lives.
While it is essential to have wage increases that surpass the rise in prices, leaving the matter entirely up to businesses only results in making it difficult for business operators to run their companies. The role of government lies in preparing an environment in which wage increases can be undertaken in a sustained manner.
That said, it will take a certain amount of time until sustained increases in real wages become firmly rooted in society. It is also a matter of urgency to attend to business operators impacted by the U.S. tariff measures and provide assistance to medical institutions and nursing care facilities where operational difficulties are becoming increasingly severe.
I have already directed my cabinet to begin formulating economic measures. While repeatedly engaging in sincere discussions with members of opposition parties to build up consensus, we will compile measures rapidly and submit the necessary supplementary budget to the Diet. Let us bring together the insights of both the ruling and opposition parties so that we emerge with economic measures and a supplementary budget that will safeguard people's daily lives and livelihoods.
We will not implement the stipend pledged by the Liberal Democratic Party during this summer's House of Councillors election campaign because it failed to gain the understanding of the public. We will instead take well-crafted responses to the concerns of the public regarding rising prices, meticulously addressing each one of them.
First of all, we will endeavor to pass a bill during the current Diet session that abolishes the so-called provisional tax rate on gasoline, through discussions among the various political parties. We also aim for the early abolition of the provisional tax rate on the delivery of diesel oil. While ensuring stable revenue for both the national and local governments, which will become necessary as we abolish these provisional tax rates, we will contend with the drop in prices by making use of subsidies until we have succeeded in abolishing these provisional tax rates.
Dealing with medical institutions and nursing care facilities struggling as they operate in the red is a matter of great urgency if we are to safeguard people's lives and ensure that people are able to receive necessary services without anxiety. Going forward, we will appropriately reflect the increases in both wages and prices within our reimbursements for medical care and nursing care services provided. However, instead of waiting for the timing of regular revisions to these reimbursements, we will set up subsidies designed to support managerial reforms and improve employee treatment, precipitating the desired benefits ahead of schedule.
In addition, we will conduct an appropriate review of unit prices for contracted work offered from the national and local governments to the private sector, based on price increases and other relevant factors.
We will protect small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and small-scale business operators from rising costs. We will strongly support wage increases and capital investment through means such as assistance to boost productivity, efforts to cultivate an environment facilitating business succession and mergers and acquisitions, and further efforts to ensure proper business transactions.
We will expand our provision of grants to local regions for prioritized assistance, aimed at assisting local governments. We will create a menu of recommended measures that provide support for consumers impacted by high prices, SMEs and small-scale business operators that are unable to make use of the tax scheme promoting wage increases, and agriculture, forestry, and fisheries businesses. We will deliver well-targeted support suited to the actual situation found in each local area, and alongside this, we will provide assistance for electricity and gas bills during the winter months when the cold is most severe.
With regard to the disincentives for second earners to earn more than a certain amount of income annually, known as the “barrier of 1.03 million yen,” we will raise the income limit [qualifying for dependent deductions] to 1.60 million yen during the year-end adjustment for 2025. We will also advance our discussions in a sincere manner on a tax measure to further raise the basic deduction in a way that is linked to changes in prices.
As for making high school tuition and school lunches effectively free, we will build upon the multiple discussions held thus far transcending party and factional lines and advance our discussions on how to design the relevant systems, secure stable funding for these initiatives, and implement both of them from next April. We will take this opportunity to go beyond only providing financial support and press forward with a review of what high school education in Japan should look like.
We must also reduce the burden borne by middle- and low-income earners, who struggle to shoulder taxes and social insurance premiums, and ensure that people's net incomes increase as their earnings rise. We will promptly begin designing a system for refundable tax credits.
To respond to the U.S. tariff measures, we will prepare a menu of support options, including cash-flow measures for SMEs, tailored to business operators' individual situations and needs, and take all possible measures to reduce the impact.
4. Achieving robust economic growth through bold strategic investments that enhance resilience against potential crises
It is vitally important for us to make Japan's "economic pie" larger over the medium to long term. We will aim to cultivate cutting-edge technologies that contribute to resolving the issues Japan faces, enabling the Japanese economy to realize vigorous growth. As a step towards that goal, we will launch the Council for Japan's Growth Strategy.
Strategic investments that enhance resilience against potential crises are the core focus of the Takaichi Cabinet's growth strategy. These are strategic investments that the public and private sector will implement preemptively, working hand in hand, to address various risks and social issues, including economic security, food security, energy security, health and medical security, and measures to enhance national resilience. If we succeed in providing products, services, and infrastructure that contribute to the resolution of commonly-shared global issues, that will lead to further economic growth for Japan. Transforming apprehension towards the future into hope, we will carve out new growth for the economy.
In strategic fields such as AI and semiconductors, shipbuilding, quantum technology, biotechnology, aviation and space, and cyber security, we will take comprehensive support measures from a multifaceted perspective that includes boldly promoting investment, supporting international expansion, cultivating human resources, promoting startups, conducting research and development, fostering collaboration between industry and academia, and international standardization of our products. By so doing, we will draw out proactive investment from both the public and the private sector.
Aiming to make Japan the world’s best country to develop and use AI, we will utilize data linkage and integration and other means to accelerate the research, development, and commercialization of AI and other new digital technologies. Beyond that, we will support the overseas expansion of industries related to digital technologies, including the content industry.
I offer my hearty congratulations to Dr. SAKAGUCHI Shimon and Dr. KITAGAWA Susumu on being awarded this year’s Nobel Prizes. The foundation of a robust economy is outstanding scientific and technological capabilities, together with human resources who are capable of promoting innovation.
We will push forward with our efforts to bolster public education and reform universities. We will at the same time provide strategic support that will help to advance science and engineering and contribute to fostering human resources, embracing the goal of being a new kind of technology-driven nation.
We will also need the power of finance to accelerate our growth strategy. Building upon the results of our efforts to shift capital from savings into investments as one part of our promotion of Japan as a leading asset management center, we will formulate a strategy that unleashes the latent potential of both the Japanese economy as a whole and local economies through financial mechanisms and implement such strategy through public-private cooperation.
By so doing, we will fortify Japan's supply structure and bring about an economy that invites trust from investors around the globe. This will give rise to a virtuous cycle in which capital from around the world flows into Japan.
5. Food security
From the perspective of revitalizing local communities and ensuring food security, it will be important to promote the agriculture, forestry and fishery industries. In the area of agriculture, we will secure a special budgetary allocation during the period for undertaking intensive measures to transform agricultural structures, which lasts five years. We will make use of world-class plant factories, land-based aquaculture, satellite data, AI analysis, and sensors, among other cutting-edge technologies, and promote exports, thereby fostering agriculture, forestry and fishery industries that turn a profit.
6. Energy security
The stable and inexpensive supply of energy is absolutely crucial in maintaining the daily lives of the Japanese people and nurturing our domestic industries while further strengthening the competitiveness of locations for attracting business investments. In particular, domestically-sourced energy, notably nuclear power and Perovskite solar cells, will be critical. Utilizing the Green Transformation (GX) budget, we will leverage decarbonized energy sources to the fullest possible extent while also pressing forward with comprehensive energy conservation and fuel switching by employing technologies such as photonics-electronics convergence technology. Such initiatives will be premised on gaining the understanding of the local communities and on giving due regard to environmental impacts. We will also strive for the early practical adoption in society of next-generation advanced reactors and fusion energy.
We will give concrete shape to these measures immediately. Let us make collective efforts across Japan to realize a robust economy.
7. Measures to enhance national resilience during the Reiwa era
Japan is one of the world's most disaster-prone countries. As such, proactive disaster prevention in anticipation of a potential massive earthquake such as an earthquake in the Nankai Trough or directly beneath the Tokyo metropolitan area and emergency response, recovery, and reconstruction in the wake of disasters should they actually occur are among the highest-priority issues for Japan as a nation.
Accordingly, we will accelerate preparations for the establishment in fiscal 2026 of a dedicated Disaster Management Agency, with a view to undertaking a fundamental reinforcement of our disaster management framework. Alongside this, we will carry out a comprehensive risk assessment through simulations conducted by both the national and local governments. We will also rigorously implement proactive disaster prevention and preventive maintenance in both structural and non-structural aspects, including through the use of digital technologies and satellite information, electromagnetic data, and drones, as well as through developing and maintaining disaster prevention infrastructure and aging infrastructure.
To counteract the increasing frequency and intensity of natural disasters, we will revise our systems and newly implement special flood warnings and joint forecasts and warnings for storm surges, made possible through improvements in forecasting technologies and other advances.
We will create a system that will serve as a backup to the crisis management functions of the Tokyo metropolitan area. From the perspective of decentralizing the functions of the capital and establishing a multi-centered economic zone, we will move quickly to consider the responsibilities and functions of the capital and secondary capital.
Without the reconstruction of Fukushima, there will be no reconstruction of Tohoku. And without the reconstruction of Tohoku, there will be no revival of Japan. Among other endeavors, we will work to rebuild the daily lives as well as the industries, occupations, and livelihoods of the disaster victims and promote the Fukushima Innovation Coast Framework.
Soon it will be two years since the Noto Peninsula Earthquake struck. And, a full year has already passed since the heavy rains battered Oku-Noto, which was in the midst of reconstruction efforts. In order to bring back the daily bustle of life in Noto and the smiles on the faces of the people there at the earliest possible timing, we will swiftly address the recovery of infrastructure. We will also advance assistance targeting the daily lives of the disaster victims and make progress in rebuilding people's livelihoods and restoring traditional industries.
8. Health and medical security
Protecting the lives and the health of the people is an important kind of security.
If we are to overcome the decline in population alongside the shrinking birthrate and aging of society, we need to have a national discussion about how we should design the benefits and burdens associated with the social security system. We will establish a national council that will include nonpartisan and expert members and discuss the comprehensive reform of social security and taxation systems, including designing a system for tax credits with benefits. This council will also include members of the opposition parties, and I hope that together we will advance our discussions on these matters.
Building upon the agreements among political parties reached thus far, we will promptly examine reviewing out-of-pocket costs for prescribed drugs similar to over-the-counter drugs, digitization at medical institutions, including electronic medical records, and the realization of efficient, high quality medical care, including through the use of digital health records to improve health care.
It is also necessary to reformulate a healthcare system that responds to the aging of society.  We will formulate a new vision for regional health care that includes not only hospitalization but also coordination with outpatient care, home-based medical care, and nursing care. We will also promote discussions within local communities. In addition, we will undertake comprehensive measures designed to rectify the uneven distribution of doctors. Alongside these efforts, we will make progress in optimizing the number of hospital beds in preparation for the new regional vision for health care.
As we press forward with these reforms to the social security system, we will keep in check the insurance premium burden shouldered by the working generation.  For issues needing immediate responses, we will expedite our discussions.
We will also work to extend healthy life expectancy by thoroughly pursuing "proactive preventive health care." We will aim to enable people to live healthy and active lives so they can contribute to the social security system. In particular, we will accelerate our responses to health issues that arise from gender differences. I have been engaged in women's lifelong health issues for many years now, and last year, the Integrated Center for Women's Health was founded. Positioning this Center as a "control tower," we will expand the outcomes all around the country by preparing facilities for medical examinations, engaging in research, and fostering human resources with regard to diseases that are unique to women.
9. Preserving our regional areas and our ways of life
(Regional future strategies)
"When discussing matters, you should start off from your own place or circumstances. Only then will steady progress be possible."
As reflected in these words by the great YOSHIDA Shoin, the vitality of local regions is in fact the vitality of Japan. This is something that I know from personal experience. We will take advantage of the growth potential of our local regions and preserve the lifestyles and the security enjoyed by the people who live there.
As one outcome of the support that the Government has provided proactively, in Kumamoto Prefecture, which Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) has expanded into, and in Hokkaido, where Rapidus has set up an operating base, related investments have been touched off, and various economic impacts are now beginning to emerge. Let us precipitate such instances one after another in locations all across Japan.
We will provide support for mid-sized enterprises aiming to expand their businesses beyond their local region and, by implementing bold investment promotion measures and infrastructure development in an integrated manner, we will attract large-scale investments to local areas and strategically form industrial clusters in each local region. In this way, we will promote the Strategy for the Future of Regions.
By harnessing the creation of added value through the use of technology and local resources and support for expanding businesses beyond their local areas, creating an associated population, including people who maintain residences in two areas, cultivating agriculture, forestry and fishery industry businesses that are profitable, and other endeavors, we will restore vitality to local areas, including agricultural, mountain, and fishing communities and hilly and mountainous areas.
We will also work to ensure that people can continue to live in rural areas, including young people and women. To do this, it is imperative for us to make it possible for people to receive all necessary administrative services, including high-quality education. We will work to develop local tax systems that have less disparity in revenue sources and ensure stable tax revenues.
(Policy on population; measures regarding foreign nationals in Japan)
Proceeding from the recognition that Japan's greatest problem is its shrinking population, we will create a framework for considering measures to counter the population decline, including policies on children and child-rearing.
Amidst the labor shortage that has accompanied our population decline, it is a fact that there are sectors in which foreign nationals are necessary as human resources. Inbound tourism is also important.
That said, it is also the case that a situation is now arising in which Japanese nationals are feeling unease or injustice in response to illegal activities or deviations from the rules by a subset of foreign nationals in Japan.
We draw a clear line against xenophobia. However, the government will stand firm in responding to such activities. We will enhance policy coordinating functions on foreign nationals in Japan, call for compliance with existing rules, and move forward on examining how we should set our rules governing land acquisition and other matters. To that end, I have newly appointed a minister in charge of such matters.
(Ensuring public security and safety)
We will take strict responses to new criminal activities that abuse the Internet, including by strengthening legal regulations.
In addition to steadily implementing the efforts set out in "Comprehensive Measures to Protect People from Fraud 2.0," we will accelerate necessary considerations, including regarding the legal system, and aim to eradicate so-called anonymous and mobile crime groups.
We will strengthen legal regulations in order to prevent harm from stalking or other acts that misuse new technologies and harm resulting from spousal violence.
In addition to strengthening regulations, we will conduct a review of the legal system to ensure it conforms with the times. Probation officers are very important in preventing recidivism. We will carry out measures that enhance the sustainability of the system, including enhancing measures taken to ensure probation officers' safety.  We will also move forward on discussions about reviewing the retrial system, through which finalized criminal court cases are retried.
10. Diplomacy and security
We are now witnessing historic shifts in the balance of power and an escalation of geopolitical competition, which are profoundly shaking the free, open, and stable international order that we have long embraced.
At the same time, in the area surrounding Japan, military developments and other activities of China, North Korea, and Russia -- all neighboring countries -- are a matter of grave concern.
Amid the current international situation, we will restore Japanese diplomacy that flourishes on the world's center stage.
The Japan-U.S. Alliance is the cornerstone of Japan's diplomacy and security policies. By firmly coordinating our efforts to address the challenges faced by both Japan and the United States, we will further reinforce the deterrence and the response capabilities of the Japan-U.S. Alliance. I will meet with President Trump on the occasion of his visit to Japan and work to build a relationship of trust between us, thereby elevating the Japan-U.S. Alliance to new heights.
Taking the Japan-U.S. Alliance as the cornerstone, we will also further deepen multilateral security consultations, including those among Japan, the United States, and the Republic of Korea; Japan, the United States, and the Philippines; and Japan, the United States, Australia, and India (Quad).
If we are to ensure the smooth presence of U.S. forces in Japan, gaining the understanding and cooperation of the Japanese people, including the people in the local communities directly affected, will be absolutely critical. We will continue also to work to mitigate the impact of U.S. military bases on local communities, including Okinawa Prefecture. We will press ahead with the construction work for the relocation to Henoko, aiming to realize the total return of Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Futenma at the earliest possible date. We will also build a robust Okinawan economy.
We will continue to vigorously advance a Free and Open Indo-Pacific as a pillar of our diplomacy and further evolve this vision in line with the times. Under this vision, we will strengthen our cooperation with like-minded countries that share fundamental values, as well as with countries in the Global South.
We will actively pursue the strategic expansion of membership in the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP).
With the Republic of Korea, an important neighboring country, we will work to further strengthen our relationship through dialogue at the summit level.
We will also further strengthen ties with ASEAN countries.
With China, an important neighboring country for Japan, it is necessary to establish a constructive and stable bilateral relationship. At the same time, it is also a fact that there are security concerns between our two countries, including those related to economic security. We will comprehensively promote a mutually beneficial relationship based on common strategic interests through continued candid dialogue between the leaders of Japan and China.
Nuclear and missile development by North Korea is totally unacceptable. As the families of the victims continue to age, the abductions issue is one of the highest priority issues for my administration. We are firmly committed to taking all necessary measures to bring all abductees home at the earliest possible time.
With regard to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine, we must not tolerate any unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force. Notwithstanding the acutely challenging circumstances enveloping Japan-Russia relations, Japan maintains its policy of resolving the territorial issue and concluding a peace treaty.
Since the formulation of the "three documents," including the National Security Strategy in December 2022, we have witnessed various changes in the security environment, such as the emergence of new ways of warfare. It is therefore essential that Japan take the initiative in fundamentally reinforcing its defense capabilities. To this end, with regard to the level of defense spending at “2 percent of GDP” as stipulated in the National Security Strategy, we will take front-loaded measures within this fiscal year, including through a supplementary budget. Furthermore, we will begin discussions with the aim of revising the "three documents" by the end of next year.
We will work to strengthen our defense production and technological bases, which constitute the core of Japan’s defense capabilities, and to improve the treatment of Self-Defense Forces personnel, who are at the center of our national defense.
11. Constitutional reform, revision of the Imperial Household Law, and commemorating the 100th anniversary of the start of the Showa era
During my tenure as prime minister, I would like to have the Diet release a proposal on constitutional reform. I very much look forward to constructive discussions that transcend party and factional lines accelerating in the Deliberative Councils on the Constitution, and I also hope that active discussions deepen among members of the public.
I also have great expectations for discussions to deepen among the various political parties and factions regarding the stable succession of the Imperial throne, leading to a revision of the Imperial Household Law.
This year would have been the 100th year of the Showa era. The year 2026 marks the centennial anniversary of the start of the Showa era. The Showa era was one in which Japan experienced unprecedented changes, including the war, the end of the war, postwar reconstruction, and rapid economic growth. Regarding this occasion as a national milestone, I wish to use related endeavors such as a commemorative ceremony and other such events to learn from the wisdom and the efforts of our predecessors, carry on their vow for peace, and make the anniversary an opportunity to lead to contributions towards the stability and prosperity of the international community.
12. Conclusion
Embracing the positions I have set forth in this speech, I will without question make Japan stronger and more prosperous and raise Japan to an elevated position in the world once again.
"One should not decide matters alone. It is necessary to discuss them appropriately with others."
In Japan, importance has been placed on the opinions of the masses since ancient times.
Politics is not about making decisions dogmatically. Instead, politics is the act of talking together, struggling together, and making decisions together.
I will engage with the members of each political party sincerely and build our future, for the sake of the nation and the Japanese people.
My fellow members of the Diet, together let us venture forward together in a new step for Japan.
Thank you for your kind attention.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister