Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae regarding Her Aspirations upon the Inauguration of Her New Cabinet, the Upcoming Diplomatic Schedule, and Other Matters (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae regarding Her Aspirations upon the Inauguration of Her New Cabinet, the Upcoming Diplomatic Schedule, and Other Matters
October 22, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Takaichi's aspirations as her cabinet officially begins its duties; on her upcoming trips to attend the ASEAN and APEC summits; and the stance she intends to take during her upcoming meeting with U.S. President Trump)
First of all, as I mentioned earlier, a missile was launched from North Korea this morning. The Takaichi Cabinet views crisis management regarding this matter as absolutely critical in protecting people's lives. We intend to maintain an even higher level of vigilance than in the past and respond swiftly.
Also, yesterday, I was designated as prime minister at the Diet in the afternoon, and then in the evening I was invested with the office by His Majesty the Emperor, thereby assuming the post of prime minister of Japan. I call my cabinet the Cabinet of Determination and Progress. Once we have jointly taken a well-considered decision on something, we will fully commit ourselves to moving forward on it, stepping up the pace as we do so. Everything we do will be for the sake of Japan and the Japanese people.
In addition, my diplomatic schedule will get off to an early start. First will be the ASEAN summit, and then President Trump is scheduled to visit Japan. The APEC summit follows soon afterward. Each of those diplomatic occasions is of tremendous importance to Japan.
To begin with, in order to restore Japanese diplomacy that flourishes on the world's center stage, I will work to deepen my friendships with various people, most notably with other national leaders, and forge relationships of trust with them. Beyond that, going forward, I intend to communicate clearly what Japan aims to achieve as a nation.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister