Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae
October 21, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
[Opening statement by Prime Minister Takaichi]
Good evening, everyone.
I am TAKAICHI Sanae, the 104th Prime Minister of Japan.
Today, at a farm in Shiraoi Town, Hokkaido, a suspected case of avian influenza was detected based on a rapid test. The Hokkaido Government is currently conducting a PCR test. This new Cabinet will ensure that relevant ministries, agencies and the Hokkaido Government closely cooperate and take all possible measures to respond to this matter with a high sense of urgency.
First of all, I sincerely apologize to the people for the lengthy time it has taken to form the new Cabinet.
From now on, we will resolutely work for the sake of the country and the people, embracing change without fear and taking bold action. The Cabinet I have formed today is dedicated to that mission. We are determined to achieve results for the country and the people and persevere to the very end to build a strong Japan.
I never gave up on the path to becoming the President of the Liberal Democratic Party, even after being defeated not once, but twice. I have been clearly determined to build a strong Japanese economy and to resolutely protect Japan’s national interests in diplomacy and security.
I would like to reiterate my sincere gratitude to the members of Komeito for their cooperation over the long period of 26 years, including during challenging years in the opposition.
However, without “political stability,” it is impossible to carry out strong economic policies or robust foreign and security policies. I would like to express my gratitude to our colleagues in the Japan Innovation Party who, embracing the shared aspiration for reviving Japan, reached a policy agreement with us.
And I extend my sincere respect to all those involved for their dedication to the consultations.
Based on the policy agreement between the two parties, we will work together hand in hand to achieve our policies, including measures against rising prices, backup systems for the capital’s functions, social security reform and constitutional revision.
We also agreed on the reduction of the number of Diet members as part of a “self-sacrificial reform." Furthermore, this Cabinet, including myself as Prime Minister who is appointed by the Diet, intends to pursue legislative measures to ensure that ministers and other Cabinet members do not receive salaries exceeding those of Diet members.
Furthermore, with everything I do dedicated to the country and the people, I will continue to seek cooperation from all opposition parties that share our aspiration to form a majority and ensure political stability. In principle, we will engage in constructive discussions, positively considering policy proposals from opposition parties as long as they are consistent with our basic policies. We stand ready to demonstrate maximum possible flexibility. If it is for the sake of the country and the people, we will press ahead tenaciously. This is the unwavering principle of this Cabinet.
At the first Cabinet meeting, I will instruct the formulation of economic measures. We will firmly implement measures to address the rising prices currently affecting the people. We intend to promptly abolish the provisional tax rate on gasoline.
Furthermore, while listening to the opinions from the opposition parties, we will also raise the so-called “barrier of 1.03 million yen” (the income threshold for second earners above which tax benefits decrease). Our economic measures are thus aimed at increasing take-home pay and reducing the burden on households.
We will also take all possible measures to mitigate the impact of US tariffs.
Moreover, the core of this Cabinet’s growth strategy lies in strategic investments that enhance resilience against potential crises. These investments will be made jointly by the public and private sectors, working hand in hand to proactively address various risks and social issues, such as economic security, food security and energy security.
If we can provide products, services and infrastructure that contribute to solving global challenges, it will lead to further growth for our nation. We will turn unease about the future into hope and forge a path for new economic growth. Now is the time for us to launch this bold initiative.
Next week, the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations)-related Summit Meetings will be held in Malaysia, followed by the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Economic Leaders’ Meeting in the Republic of Korea.
These meetings will provide excellent opportunities to meet with leaders from many countries.
I intend to take these opportunities to continue to vigorously promote a “Free and Open Indo-Pacific” as a pillar of our diplomacy while also updating it in line with the times, and to deepen cooperation with like-minded countries that share fundamental values, as well as with countries in the Global South.
I also intend to meet with President Trump at an early date to elevate Japan-U.S. relations to new heights. Japan-U.S. relations as an alliance serve as the cornerstone of Japan’s foreign and security policy.
We will deepen the relationship of trust between the two leaders through candid exchanges of views on issues facing both Japan and the United States, ranging from bilateral challenges to those in the Indo-Pacific region, as well as the situations in the Middle East and Europe, including Ukraine.
To protect Japan’s national interests, we will restore Japan’s diplomacy that flourishes on the world's center stage.
As Japan faces major crises both at home and abroad, we have no time to stand still. We will act boldly and decisively, embracing change without fear. From the very first day, I have instructed our Cabinet Ministers to fulfill their duties in their respective roles at full speed.
Even together, the Liberal Democratic Party and the Japan Innovation Party do not hold a majority in either the House of Representatives or the House of Councillors.
We have set out on a severe and difficult journey as a minority government.
Nevertheless, I will not give up.
This Cabinet is the “Cabinet of Determination and Progress.” Together with the people, we will move every policy forward, one step at a time or sometimes two. I sincerely ask for the support of the people. As this Cabinet sets sail, I earnestly ask for your understanding and cooperation.
That concludes my remarks.
Related Link
Japanese
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister