Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae Regarding the Japan-U.S. Summit Telephone Talks (Speeches and Statements <br>by the Prime Minister) | Prime Minister's Office of Japan
Press Conference by Prime Minister TAKAICHI Sanae Regarding the Japan-U.S. Summit Telephone Talks
October 25, 2025
Tweet
[Provisional translation]
(On Prime Minister Takaichi's phone call with U.S. President Donald Trump)
I just finished a phone call with President Trump. First of all, he warmly congratulated me on my appointment as Prime Minister, and I was very grateful for his kind words. I conveyed to him that strengthening the Japan–U.S. Alliance is the top priority for my administration’s foreign and security policy. We confirmed our shared commitment to further elevating the Alliance to new heights. I also expressed my respect for President Trump’s leadership regarding the recent situation in the Middle East. I conveyed that Japan is an indispensable partner for the United States, both in its strategy toward China and in its Indo-Pacific strategy, and I conveyed my will to continue to advance the vision of a Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) together.
In addition, I conveyed my appreciation to President Trump for his support to date on the abduction issue and asked for his continued understanding and cooperation going forward.
Lastly, I mentioned that I very much look forward to welcoming the President in Tokyo in the coming days.
(On whether President Trump was making the call from Air Force One)
Yes.
(On Prime Minister Takaichi's impression of U.S. President Donald Trump after directly talking to him)
My impression of President Trump is that he is a very cheerful and engaging person. He knew quite a bit about myself already and even shared with me some fond memories of the late Prime Minister Abe. He said he knew I was one of the politicians Prime Minister Abe cared deeply about. I, in turn, also expressed my gratitude for the kindness and friendship he has shown to Mrs. Akie Abe this year.
Related Link
Japanese
Japan-U.S. Summit Telephone Talk (Summary)
Tweet
Return to the Speeches and Statements by the Prime Minister